I define myself as a mixed media  artist and engineer who takes on painting, photography, and film. My main sources of  inspiration are from my roots in Haiti and from the diverse art world in Montreal where I  live. Through my pieces, I explore identity, intimacy, and the acceptance of the unknown.  When I was invited to develop the idea for this book cover and thinking about STEM  education as a human right, I recalled many examples of times I, as a woman of color  pursuing an engineering degree, felt excluded from engineering and in general from  STEM. The visual collage for this book cover came to me when I was on a plane coming  back to Montreal from Port-au-Prince to complete my last semester at university. I took  a picture of my hand and designed this cover to visually reinforce the notion of centering  humanity and especially human rights in the four fields of STEM, a human hand holding  up four symbols, each representing one field:  The pinky representing science is dressed by a ring symbol made of a simplified  molecular diagram, this is a reflection on seeing science in all its forms always leading  back to molecular interactions. The ring aspect of this symbol is a nod to my fellow  Canadian educated engineers as we all receive a ring upon graduation as a reminder of  the ethical implications of our profession. The ring finger represents technology with  a circuit board diagram, the symbol demonstrates the interconnectedness possible with  technology allowing all processes to evolve and be more efficient. The middle finger  represents engineering with gears intelligently designed to work together in order to  go forward. And finally, the index finger represents mathematics with a part of the  Fibonacci sequence written. This complex sequence is found all throughout nature in  visual and mathematical forms.  My work as an artist is very different from my work as an engineer. This multimedia  collage allowed me to pull from both my artistic and scientific knowledge to create a de‐ sign that balances it all out. Even though I know that everything is connected, sometimes  it is not as visible in one’s personal life, it was very interesting to discover yet another  connection between two very separate parts of mine. Introduction “[A]s an empowerment right, education is the primary vehicle by which eco‐ nomically and socially marginalized adults and children can lift themselves  out of poverty and obtain the means to participate fully in their communi‐ ties.” (ICESCR, Art. 13, 1966)  “But the importance of education is not just practical: a well-educated, en‐ lightened and active mind, able to wander freely and widely, is one of the joys  and rewards of human existence.” (CESCR, 1999)  In the last decades, various efforts have been made to investigate and reduce the marginal‐ ization of different social groups in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and  mathematics (STEM). By applying the human rights approach, questions arise whether  STEM education at the primary, secondary, and post-secondary levels is equally acces‐ sible to everyone. Particularly, the Sustainable Development Goals, passed by the UN  in 2015, focus on the necessity of promoting science education as a right: Is access to  STEM fields (still) limited or is it open to all? What barriers and social mechanisms  are limiting access? How do institutionalized STEM practices, educational standards,  and scientific evaluation systems reinforce inequities, and which identities are welcome?  These are some of the questions addressed from different angles in this book. W e hope  to provide a framework that is applicable to and supportive of efforts to reduce inequity  in science and to improve science education for all.  The Background of This Book This book is the outcome of a joint effort over several years to develop an understanding  of and a framework for science education as a human right. The idea was born at the  first International Symposium on Human Rights and Equality in STEM Education,  which took place at the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of the Sciences on October 1st,  2018, in Berlin. W e, the editors, prepared and organized this symposium across the  Atlantic. Susanne Spintig took the lead in onsite organization and conference docu‐ mentation. Tanja Tajmel and Klaus Starl contributed to the program development from  Montreal (Canada) and Graz (Austria). The symposium brought together educators and  researchers to discuss and reflect on the meaning of the human right to education for  science or STEM education.  The opening speech of Nada Al-Nashif (then UNESCO Assistant Director-General  for Social and Human Sciences, and now United Nations Deputy High Commissioner  for Human Rights) set the tone for this symposium: a commitment to equity in access to 10 Introduction  education, to ending discrimination in sciences, to sustainable development, to gender  equality and the empowerment particularly of girls and women in the STEM fields, and  to science as common good. Then, talks that followed by Petra Lucht, Susanne HerzogPunzenberger, Lamija Tanovi´ c, Munire Erden, and Seval Fer highlighted the benefits  of transdisciplinary approaches to deepening the understanding of the human right to  science education. The symposium closed with the adoption of the Declaration on the  Human Right to Science Education by the symposium participants, which, by referring  to the 4-As of the right to education – availability, accessibility, acceptability, adaptabil‐ ity – comprise recommendations for policy makers and stakeholders for the realization  of science education as a human right. This Declaration forms the foundation of this  book.  The Authors and Their Contributions For this book, we continued to follow our transdisciplinary approach and gathered ex‐ perts from different fields who share interest in studying, addressing, and counteracting  inequity and discrimination in science and STEM education.  The book is structured into three parts: Part I centers on human rights, the Dec‐ laration on the Right to Science Education, and UNESCO’s position. Part II focuses  on science / STEM education, curricula, standards, the politics of STEM education, and  decolonizing approaches to science education. Part III places a special focus on gender  and science and on gender inequities in STEM careers and scientific rewards systems,  and closes with an example for diversity mentorship in STEM.  Part I: Human Rights This part opens with the speech of Nada Al-Nashif  given at the international symposium  in Berlin on October 1st, 2018. The speech set the tone for the symposium, and we  felt that it should set the tone for this book as well. It highlights both the right for  everyone to participate in science and the imperative to improve science, with a particular  focus on Sustainable Development Goals and gender equality as a global priority – goals  that will only be reached under the premises of science education for everyone and the  understanding of science as a common good. The respective contributions by the authors  can be seen as responses to this call from different perspectives. The Declaration of the  Human Right to Science Education (2018)  outlines the goals with the three key aspects,  (i) the right to, (ii) the access to, and (iii) the quality of science education, and concludes  with recommendations for educational institutions, researchers, and decision-makers.  Klaus Starl  re-examines the right to science education by applying the 4-A scheme that  structures the right to education to developments since the first postulation of the right Introduction 11  to science education in 2009 as an outcome of the project PROMISE (Promotion of Mi‐ grants in Science Education), taking into account the significance of the right to science  education in the Covid-19 pandemic. Gerd Oberleitner  explores the development of  the human right to science from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 to  2020, highlighting two interrelated aspects: the individual right to enjoy the outcomes of  scientific research and its application and the right to participate in science as a cultural  human right, illustrating the tension between the positive and negative contributions of  science that are central to the debate on the human right to science. In the final chapter in  the human rights part, T anja T ajmel  presents a model for the human rights approach to  science education that refers, particularly, to concepts of underrepresentation, diversity,  and difference. It links the human rights approach to the intersection of structural and  cultural aspects of science education, as well as identity construction in science. Present‐ ing the right to science education as a normative framework for science education centers  the individual’s rights, rather than economic interests, as goals of science education.  Part II: Science / STEM Education At the beginning of the second part, Svein Sjøberg  sheds light on the politics of science  education and sketches the development of international large-scale studies and the  emergence of PISA. His chapter provides a critical account of standardized testing, along  with the centering of market interests and globalization in science education. Seval Fer   reveals institutional barriers to fulfillment of the promises of STEM education, with  the example of the education system in T urkey. By outlining the entanglement of edu‐ cational, organizational, structural, and institutional challenges in the development of  curricula for STEM education, she concludes that successful STEM education requires  frameworks that allow for interdisciplinary approaches to curricula and extra-curricular  activities. Lamija T anovi´ c , in her chapter, describes how post-war politics in BosniaHerzegovina impacted access to education and particularly to science education in an  institutionally complex structure and a highly fragmented educational system focused  more on infrastructure than on curriculum development and quality education. Lorena  Lacerda , Bruno de Jesus Brito Santana , and Bárbara Carine Soares Pinheiro  out‐ line emancipatory and anti-racist education based on the principles of decoloniality of  knowledge with the example of Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School (MFS), thus adding  another facet to the requirements that science curricula must fulfill to be acceptable to  learners – that is, anti-racist education which does not reinforce binaries and colonial  power relations. 12 Introduction  Part III: Gender and Science The third part opens with a chapter by Petra Lucht , who presents approaches to trans‐ disciplinary research at the interface of STEM fields and gender by linking taxonomies  of research on gender in science and technology studies (STS) to research paradigms  in gender studies and to transdisciplinarity. With this focus on research, the chapter  contributes to the scientific field of gender in science and technology, and to the under‐ standing of how research can counteract reproduction of difference and binary thinking.  Examples of transdisciplinary research projects illustrate these approaches. Stefanie Ruel   presents a framework of discourses and identity intersectionality as methodology used  in her empirical research to reveal barriers that women in STEM experience in their  careers. She illustrates this research with the stories of two early-career STEM-trained  women in the context of the historical and contemporary Canadian space industry. Gita  Ghiasi  sheds light on scientific evaluation systems and inequitable practices in research  evaluation. In a comprehensive overview of indicators for scientific evaluation from a  gender perspective, she contributes to a better understanding of the impact of these  systems and how the use of these indicators can affect the career progression of women  in science. Finally, Susanne Spintig  and T anja T ajmel  raise the question of challenges  facing mentorship programs for women in STEM, particularly, how to address identities  without co-constructing stereotypes. They present the revision of the mission statement  of the mentorship program Club Lise in a participatory process as an example for critical  reflection on categories of difference and the general challenges of defining a group.  How to Read This Book The book provides an introduction to the right to science education (chapters 1–5) as  well as concrete topics (chapters 6–13) that can be studied through the lens of human  rights. The following recommendations allow the reader to benefit most from this book:  Chapters 1–5 introduce to the framework of human rights and outline the right to  science education as a special aspect of the broader right to education. These chapters  provide the lens through which the subsequent chapters 6–13 are to be read. The latter  do not focus explicitly on human rights, but they address different aspects and contexts  that either produce and reinforce barriers and inequity in STEM and science education  (e.g., educational politics, standardized assessments, scientific reward systems, identities  in STEM careers) or counteract the reproduction of inequity (e.g., decolonizing educa‐ tion, gender in STS research, critical mentorship). For chapters 6–13, we recommend  keeping in mind the following questions:  – What inequities and barriers to access to STEM fields and to STEM education are  addressed or can be reconstructed based on this chapter?  – How does the presented context relate to the 4-A scheme? Introduction 13  – How does the presented context relate to the three intersectional levels: the struc‐ tural / institutional level, the cultural / representational level, and the identity con‐ struction level?  Acknowledgements The chapters of this book were written in different countries and benefitted from  a variety of resources and the support of colleagues, friends, families, and students.  W e acknowledge the Kanien’kehá:ka Nation as the custodians of the lands and waters  of Tiohtiá:ke / Montreal where Concordia University is located. W e are tremendously  grateful for the commitment of our contributing authors who stayed with us on this  journey that started long before the pandemic and turned out to be more important  than ever before. Our special thanks go to Dr. Stuart MacMillan, who with great sen‐ sitivity revised and edited our chapters, considering that most of the authors are nonnative English speakers, and to Melanie Völker (W axmann) for her continuous support  throughout the publication process. A big thank you goes to Tatiana Zanon, who helped  with translations, and Riya Dutta, who assisted the editing process. Finally, we gratefully  acknowledge the constant support of W olfgang Gollub from Deutsche Gesamtmetall,  who supported the symposium in Berlin and is also supporting the publication of this  book.  Tanja Tajmel, Montreal  Klaus Starl, Graz  Susanne Spintig, Berlin Part I  Human RightsA Human Rights-Based Approach to Equitable Access to STEM  Education  Nada Al-Nashif*  Keynote Speech at the International Symposium on Human Rights and  Equality in STEM Education, 1 October 2018, Berlin, Germany Ladies and gentlemen, dear hosts and organizers,  Thank you for the initiative and for including UNESCO in this important reflec‐ tion. It is a real treat to be in this historic city, in this grand academy of science – and  humanities, let’s keep in mind.  Achieving the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda requires transformative think‐ ing and action. Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) have already  made improvements in many aspects of life, such as health and well-being, infrastructure,  sustainable energy production, agriculture, and many others. In synergy with the social  and human sciences, STEM has the potential to transform and improve people’s lives,  while ensuring environmental sustainability and providing the basis for new approaches  and solutions to current and future global challenges.  The issue is to realize that potential.  The right to share in the benefits of science and its application is a human right,  enshrined in Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of which we are  celebrating this year the 70th anniversary. And there is no way science and technology  will respond to the needs of women if women’s voices are not heard – not just in  discussing how to apply science, technology, and innovation, but also in producing the  scientific knowledge itself. Inclusive science isn’t just more relevant science – it’s better  science.  And the science we have today is not nearly as inclusive as it could be. In particular, if  the world needs more scientists to achieve Agenda 2030, it cannot afford not to properly  involve half of its population in science and its applications. This deficit is at the heart  of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), obviously enshrined in SDGs, but also  embedded in the targeting of social justice outcomes and the promise to “leave no one  behind.”  Clearly, the current situation is not satisfactory.  * Speech given as Assistant Director-General for Social and Human Sciences at the UNESCO. Since 10  February 2020, Ms Al-Nashif is Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights.18 Nada Al-Nashif  UNESCO has two global priorities – gender and Africa – and they are at the heart of  our discussion today.  Concerns are voiced by many countries about the low participation and learning  achievement of girls in STEM education. In recent years, the number of women involved  in science has significantly increased, notably in the life sciences and the social and hu‐ man sciences, but women remain significantly underrepresented in science overall, with  particular deficits in mathematics and engineering. Gender differences in science and  mathematics achievement begin at the end of primary education, deepen in secondary  education, and are accompanied by fewer women than men pursuing these fields in higher  education. Globally, only 35 % of higher education students in STEM are women. Within  STEM subjects, women are least likely to be well-represented in fields projected to be  critical for jobs of the future, including information and communication technologies.  UNESCO’s 2017 global report, Cracking the Code, revealed that gender differences  in STEM fields do not begin with higher education. They can be traced back to numerous  complex and interconnected factors embedded in the socialization and learning pro‐ cesses, the study of which is an important contribution by the social and human sciences  to the STEM disciplines. Among the factors that lead to gender inequalities are the way  boys and girls are brought up, learn, interact, and socialize with parents, family, friends,  teachers, and the wider community, and gender stereotypes about ability and options in  life. (W e are working now on a “masculinities” initiative that tackles root causes with a  more applied approach.)  The school is also an important setting for socialization, and the entire education pro‐ cess can influence the quality of the learning experience and either enhance or compro‐ mise girls’ engagement with STEM studies. T eachers’ subject specialization, professional  preparation, and support for effective teaching of STEM are critical factors, influencing  not only girls’ performance in but also their choice of future studies and careers. Fur‐ thermore, teachers represent some of the strongest early role models for students outside  the family, having the potential to promote positive beliefs about women’s abilities to  invalidate harmful stereotypes.  Getting more girls and women into STEM education – and ultimately STEM ca‐ reers – requires holistic and integrated responses that reach across sectors and that  engage girls and women in identifying solutions to persistent challenges. This is how  sustainable development can build on better science. W omen contribute their particular  perspectives, approaches, and priorities to research and development. With more women  scientists, particularly in leading positions, science will provide better solutions to the  problems of women and men toward sustainable development.  UNESCO, for which gender equality is a global priority, is working precisely in that  direction.  T o provide you with one example, in sub-Saharan Africa, UNESCO, with regional  teacher training institutions, the African Union’s International Centre for Girls’ and  W omen’s Education, the Forum of African W omen Educationalists (FA WE), and Mi‐A Human Rights-Based Approach to Equitable Access to STEM Education 19  crosoft, is building the capacity of teacher educators, teachers, and school administrators  to engage, inspire, and empower girls to take up STEM studies. By addressing the root  causes of existing gender gaps and building institutional capacity, UNESCO expects to  improve the interest, engagement, and achievement of thousands of girls in STEM edu‐ cation today and tomorrow. Doing so moves us all toward gender equality in education,  where women and men, girls and boys can participate fully, develop meaningfully, and  create a more inclusive, equitable, and sustainable world.  However – as important as schools are –, the significance of gender inclusiveness in  science goes deeper. UNESCO’s holistic approach to the “STEM education ecosystem”  addresses the numerous, complex, overlapping factors and identifies action at multiple  levels – individual, family and peers, school / university, and society – targeting both so‐ cialization and learning. Reaching gender equality in STEM implies encouraging further  participation of girls and women at all levels of education, and providing equal oppor‐ tunities for scientists and engineers throughout their careers. How science is organized  professionally and how science relates to society are crucial in shaping STEM education.  A general framework for the promotion of science is offered by the Recommendation  on Science and Scientific Researchers, adopted by UNESCO’s General Conference in  2017.  I’d like to refer to some key points of the text.  First, the Recommendation offers a general vision of science and of its importance.  Its preamble recognizes “the significant value of science as a common good,” the need  in each country for a “cadre of talented and trained personnel,” the importance of “open  communication of results, hypotheses, and opinions,” and the “necessity of adequate sup‐ port and essential equipment.” Furthermore, the Recommendation stresses that national  policies are indispensable in giving practical substance to this vision.  Since sharing the benefits of science is a human right, the “cadre of talented and  trained personnel” cannot exclude or even underrepresent women. The preamble of the  Recommendation notes the importance of “a fair status for those who actually perform  research and development in science and technology, taking due account of the respon‐ sibilities inherent in and the rights necessary to the performance of that work.” This  means, obviously, that ensuring fair status for women in science – all the way from  primary school to the highest levels of professional achievement – is a commitment to  which all UNESCO’s Member States have signed up.  This commitment is made explicit in Article 13 of the Recommendation, which  states that “Member States should take measures to. . . actively encourage women and  persons of other under-represented groups to consider careers in sciences, and endeavor  to eliminate biases against women and persons of other under-represented groups in  work environments and appraisal.”  The Recommendation on Science and Scientific Researchers is thus a very useful  tool for achieving more inclusive science. It reflects the clear political commitments of  UNESCO’s Member States, and it also has a monitoring mechanism – so Member States 20 Nada Al-Nashif  will be reporting periodically what they’ve been doing to open science to women and how  well they have succeeded.  In supporting its Member States to fulfil the ambition of the Recommendation,  UNESCO has in particular built the foundations of gender-responsive quality STEM ed‐ ucation through its STEM and Gender Advancement (SAGA) global project. The SAGA  project is offering governments and policy-makers a variety of tools to help reduce the  current global gender gap in STEM fields existing at all levels of education and research.  The SAGA methodology has the potential to help address other factors of exclusion or  inequitable access, such as race and income, and also to connect issues specific to STEM  education and research with the social and human sciences at a time when there is great  demand for new forms of interdisciplinarity.  Among the important lessons that arise from the SAGA approach is the importance  of details and of looking at career paths. Alongside enrollment in STEM education at  various levels, we need to be looking closely at how women’s careers differ from men’s,  in order to understand the contributing factors and to address them. This sociological  approach to science is an important example of the way in which different disciplines  can work productively together to make the world a better place!  In most disciplines of the social and human sciences, women represent a majority  of undergraduate cohorts. Y et, by graduate school, the gender difference has begun to  fall, and gradually, as one reaches senior positions in universities, men have become the  majority. The reasons for these differential paths are fairly well known. Some relate  to issues of work-life balance which tend to be particularly acute in scientific careers  because the timing of a PhD tends to clash with starting a family. In principle, these  should not be burdens falling disproportionately on women. In practice, they are, and for  reasons that obviously go beyond science. Obviously, there are many situations / contexts  where women are impacted – if they are refugees, part of an ethnic minority, social  construct / economically marginalized, or physically disabled; as such, this is all even more  discriminatory / exclusionary.  This underlines why meaningful change in this area is a policy issue, requiring Mem‐ ber States to take concrete measures to facilitate scientific careers for women. Raising  awareness, however important, will not be enough. Hence the value of the process to  monitor implementation of the Recommendation on Science and Scientific Researchers,  which offers a convenient and widely shared framework to consider both the problems  and the possible solutions. I hope that all of you, in your respective institutional capaci‐ ties, will feel empowered to use the Recommendation as a reference and as a tool that can  focus energies at national levels to work towards practical, incremental change.  I should like to close with a reminder of why these practical policy issues matter so  much.  Human rights for women, as participants in science, are part of making science better  for everyone. This is not, in other words, a zero-sum game in which men will be called  upon to make sacrifices in order to improve opportunities for women. Scientific truths A Human Rights-Based Approach to Equitable Access to STEM Education 21  are impersonal and timeless, but that does not mean that the value of science is indiffer‐ ent to how science is done and who does it.  Let me take just one example: artificial intelligence. As you know, there is increasing  concern about what specialists call “algorithmic bias” – the ways in which information  processing systems produce discriminatory outcomes for reasons that are hidden in the  details of their programming or of the data they are trained on. Sometimes, those hidden  features are deliberate. But more often, they are a consequence of assumptions made  unconsciously or unthinkingly by those who designed the systems. Any human has un‐ conscious biases – it’s part of what we are. So the only way of protecting information  systems against structural bias is to make sure that a wide range of different kinds of  humans are involved at all levels. The tech community isn’t as inclusive as it could be,  and this has potentially massive consequences.  Thus, more inclusive AI will be better AI.  This issue is currently of great importance to UNESCO, which will be convening a  major international meeting on the subject in January 2019, with particular emphasis  on the ethical challenges that arise from new kinds of data-driven applications. And,  as you can see, it’s not a separate issue from gender equality in science, technology, and  innovation; the two things are essentially, intimately connected.  W e could say the same for each of the Sustainable Development Goals. Ending  extreme poverty, universalizing education, making cities livable, addressing climate  change – all of these and more demand better science that can be more effectively  applied, which means science that is embedded in the diversity of the world. Science that  is not blinkered or trapped within unconscious biases, but science that grasps the full  complexity of its objects and the full range of different approaches to their analysis.  There is a right for everyone to participate in science and enjoy its benefits. There is  also an imperative responsibility to improve science and to use it better.  This is clearly an imperative in these challenging times when we need, more than ever,  a global voice of science that speaks to truth, and facts, and evidence. Declaration on the Human Right to Science *Education  Berlin, October 1st, 2018 Participants of the International Symposium on Human Rights and Equality in STEM  education agreed upon the following final declaration on the right to science education  and its implementation.  1. The right to science education and STEM Referring to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, participants underline the ex‐ istence of a right to science education as an inherent aspect of the right to education, the  rights to information and the right to enjoy the benefits of scientific progress including  the right to contribute to scientific progress as enshrined in Art. 26 and 27 UDHR.  As a human right it deserves a human rights approach to science education. The right  to science education pursues the goals of acquiring knowledge as an end in itself, of  participating as a useful member in society and of the development of the full personality  of learners. The right to science education encompasses the dimensions of availability of  and accessibility to science education, the component of acceptability referring to the  quality thereof, as well as the dimension of adaptability of science education, in order to  meet the requirements of scientific as well as societal dynamics.  2. The access to science education and STEM Participants are fully aware of structural and societal barriers as well as their intersec‐ tional nature and effects in the access to science education, particularly for women and  minorities, explicitly referring to the UNESCO Recommendation on Science and Sci‐ entific Researchers 2017. Science education needs to follow an integrated approach with  the general vision of science as a common good. Accessibility encompasses access and  achievement in all forms and levels of science education. Access without discrimination  follows from the Convention Against Discrimination in Education and the Convention  on T echnical and Vocational Education.  * Science summarizes what is considered as natural sciences (e.g. physics, chemistry, biology) as well as  technology, engineering, mathematics, informatics and research in these fields.24 Declaration on the Human Right to Science Education  3. The quality of science education and STEM Science education must be acceptable to learners. It needs to be up-to-date and presented  in a way that learners can get full benefit of learning, as well as using science for their  own benefit. Acceptability includes the knowledge content and research. Knowledge  and research which reproduce inequality are therefore regarded as not acceptable. The  identities that are co-constructed and reproduced through science and STEM education  and the manner in which individuals are identified, addressed, tokenized and positioned  within science education, must be acceptable to the individuals and may not harm the  individuals’ dignity. Acceptability of science education excludes any form of stigmatiza‐ tion by its content, its methodologies, its didactics or its applications.  Recommendations Education Institutions With reference to the UNESCO Recommendation on Science and Scientific Re‐ searchers, we call upon its member states taking measures to actively encourage women  and persons of underrepresented groups to consider careers in sciences and to peri‐ odically report on their success to the international community, as stated in Art. 13.  Further, with reference to the Montreal Declaration of the International Conference  on Human Rights Education 2017 (3. Specific Recommendation, 3.2 Higher Education  Institutions), states shall take all measures to ensure that science educators at all levels of  education should be trained in human rights and should gain awareness of the right to  science education.  Research in STEM Researchers in the field of STEM should develop new knowledge and technologies being  guided by critical reflection as well as by the vision of science as a common good. Novel  scientific knowledge should be constantly assessed regarding the reproduction of social  inequality. W e call upon the decision-makers in the field of science to provide the frame  for responsible research and to care for respective accountability at all levels.  Quality of STEM Education Within the responsibility of decision makers in the education system, the knowledge  content of STEM, as conveyed through teaching material amongst others, should be  revised to take inclusiveness as described above and in the respective international stan‐ dards into account. Furthermore, scientific content should be revised regarding the  conditions of social inequality under which the content was developed. The Human Right to Science Education Re-Examined  Klaus Starl  With Science Education Unlimited  (Tajmel & Starl, 2009), we postulated a human right  to science education for the first time. W e did this within the framework of the spe‐ cific support action (ref. EC FP6) called Promotion of Migrants in Science Education  (PROMISE). W e derived the right to science education from the broader right to ed‐ ucation for the very reason that science is relevant  for pursuing the objectives of the  right to education. W e focused on the dimension of acceptability – because it relates to  quality education – as well as the dimension of accessibility – a result of our intersectional  approach employed in PROMISE. In this project, we elaborated the intersectional and  multi-level nature of barriers of race, gender, class, and body as limiting principles in  the access to and achievement in (science) education. Individuals – rights holders –  in vulnerable conditions were understood as systematically, socially, and normatively  “disabled.” It was obvious for us that a human rights-based approach was the adequate  response to this challenge.  The right to science education expands new horizons of opportunity for people all  over the world; and as a right, it needs to be recognized and protected. As a consequence,  everyone is entitled to both education and science, as these are part of human culture.  This makes a profound difference for those excluded from participating in science or  from enjoying its benefits.  Since the publication of Science Education Unlimited,  the world has changed rapidly  and massively in terms of global(ized) phenomena, as well as in relation to the program‐ matic, political, and normative responses by the international community, particularly  by the UNESCO, to our specific concerns.  Migration and mobility, encompassing all its forms and motives, has not only in‐ creased but has become part of the culture of a globalized world. This reality demands  globalized standards on equal opportunities to live the life one values. Climate change,  already discussed for decades, has been recognized as a major threat to humankind and  all life on earth. Only global efforts might mitigate the tremendous impacts of climate  change. Economic and political power relations have shifted and caused new tensions  leading to economic crises as well as conflicts and wars. Again, a multilateral approach  seems the only option to harmonize conflicting interests in a way that continues to  uphold human rights and security. Digitalization, while offering many benefits, has huge  disruptive potential. However, it highlights that we live in a world of technology that is  also part of human culture. Anyone unable to participate through technology is at risk of  being left behind. Furthermore, the coronavirus pandemic and its global dimensions have 26 Klaus Starl  dramatically demonstrated the limits of our lifestyles, as well as the systemic deficiencies  and structural disadvantages along the lines of poverty, class, race, and other factors  contributing to inequality. Last but not least, the pandemic has demonstrated the lack  of resilience of our governmental and social systems, particularly in the healthcare and  education sectors.  Nevertheless, we have seen a wide range of developments addressing these issues,  including the relevant concern of this paper: the right to science education. The Global  Compact on Migration  addresses the globalization of improved human rights standards.  Besides offering critiques from human rights experts, the Sustainable Development  Agenda achieved something extraordinary: it brought the dimensions of sustainability,  resilience, and social inclusiveness under one umbrella. This must be highlighted as a  major step in international politics which, until then, had followed these strands only  separately. The development agenda recognizes the importance of education and tech‐ nology in a good way. Under its slogan “leave no one behind,” it focuses on equality and  quality of education. It further calls for the resilience of education systems. The New  Urban Agenda  translates the sustainable development agenda, with a strong focus on the  relevance of human rights, to local government agendas. In addition, here inclusiveness,  education, and science are pivotal points. In order to cope with globalized phenomena  and to comply with core values, including human rights, the international community  organized programmes, such as Global Citizenship Education (GCED), Education for  Sustainable Development (ESD), and others, ensuring and promoting quality education,  including science education. UNESCO passed its Declaration on Science and Scientific  Researchers in 2017, and a new comment on the right to science came in 2020 (see  Oberleitner in this book).  All these developments, which will be described and analysed in more detail below,  confirm that the right to science education is nowadays seen as an intrinsic part of the  right to education, as well as a right required as a precondition for the empowerment of  the right to science. Thus, we embrace a strengthened approach to the right to science  education by combining the right to education with the right to science. Furthermore,  we extend the 4-A Scheme encompassing availability, accessibility, acceptability, and  adaptability – which has gained attention within both education and science – with a  further dimension: accountability.  1. The Right to Education Education is both a human right itself and an indispensable means for realizing other  human rights. It is enshrined in Art. 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  (UDHR, 1948). In the following, we concentrate on Art. 13 of the International  Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR 1966) as the most exten‐ sive provision on education among all human rights texts. The ICESCR, as ratified by The Human Right to Science Education Re-Examined 27  most states, is legally binding. The right to education has a solid basis in international  and regional human rights law in general.1  The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR) introduces its  13thGeneral Comment on the right to education (as stipulated in Art. 13 ICESCR,  1966) by explaining the essence and underlining the importance of the right to educa‐ tion: “[A]s an empowerment right, education is the primary vehicle by which econom‐ ically and socially marginalized adults and children can lift themselves out of poverty  and obtain the means to participate fully in their communities.” However, this is not  only true for marginalized people, but for everyone. The right to education facilitates the  relationship between the individual and the society in which he or she lives. Education  should empower the individual to fully participate in society. “Increasingly, education  is recognized as one of the best financial investments States can make.” The CESCR  highlights that the right to education is economically rational for the society, its econ‐ omy, and the government. Further, it states that “[. . . ] the importance of education is  not just practical: a well-educated, enlightened and active mind, able to wander freely  and widely, is one of the joys and rewards of human existence” (CESCR, 1999, para. 1).  Thus, education is, above all, acknowledged as an end in itself and as a part of human  culture.  The rationale behind the right to education can be considered from the perspective  of the individual person, the society, or the state and its normative systems. Education  aims to develop one’s personality and enables a person to participate fully in the society  to her or his benefit and is a prerequisite to “liv[ing] the life one values” and a “means to  achiev[ing] well-being” (Sen, 1999). Every society or state needs an educated labor force  and an informed electorate. Without education, a society cannot ensure its future. Fur‐ thermore, education functions as a multiplier by enhancing all rights and freedoms while  jeopardizing them when these rights and freedoms are violated (T omaševski, 2006, p. 7;  for an extensive debate on the various benefits, see UNESCO and Right to Education  Initiative, 2019, p. 30).  1 Besides the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948, Art. 26), the Convention against Discrim‐ ination in Education (CADE, 1960) and the ICESCR (1966, Art. 13), it is laid down in Art. 7 of  the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination (CERD, 1965), Art. 10 of  the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against W omen (CEDA W , 1979),  Art. 28 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC, 1989), Art. 24 of the Convention on the  Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD, 2006), a wide range of other international declarations and  resolutions (particularly the UNESCO Convention on T echnical and Vocational Education (1989) and  the UNESCO Recommendation concerning the Status of T eachers (1966) as well as in the additional  protocol (Art. 2) to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental  Freedoms (ECHR 1950, Protocol 1 of 1952). The right to education, in whole or in part, is guaranteed  in at least 48 legally binding instruments, 28 of which are regional, and 23 soft law instruments. For a  detailed compilation see UNESCO and Right to Education Initiative (2019), The right to education  handbook.28 Klaus Starl  Art. 13 (1) ICESCR stipulates the following objectives: Everyone has the right to  education. Here, four goals of education are mentioned: first and most fundamentally,  education “shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and the  sense of its dignity”; second, education “shall strengthen the respect for human rights  and fundamental freedoms”; third, education “shall enable all persons to participate  effectively in a free society”; finally, the goal of education is to “promote understanding,  tolerance and friendship among all nations and all racial, ethnic or religious groups, and  further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace.”  The CESCR states that all explications and interpretations of the other conventions  and declarations in respect to the right to education are implicitly encompassed by  Art. 13 (1) and that these provisions are seen as concrete developments and elaborations  of the objectives of education (CESCR, 1999, para. 5).  The respect for as well as the protection and the fulfilment of the right to education  is the States’ responsibility. However, in many countries, education was introduced and  made compulsory long before the international human rights regime. As T omaševski2  pointed out, education is an important means to achieve collective political and eco‐ nomic goals (T omaševski, 2006, p. 7; UNESCO and the Right to Education Initiative,  2019, p. 131). On the other hand, education can be abused to misguide the youth of a  country. Therefore, Art. 13 (3) ICESCR guarantees the liberty to freely choose schools  other than the established public schools.  1.1 The 4-A Scheme The 4-A Scheme sets the conditions that must be met for the compliance of education,  as an institution and a practice, with the human right to education. Education in all its  forms and at all levels shall exhibit the interrelated and essential features of “availability,  accessibility, acceptability and adaptability.” This so-called 4-A Scheme was suggested  and formulated by the CESCR in the General Comment 13 (CESCR, 1999, para. 6).  The 4-A Scheme is both a threshold and an evaluation tool for the compliance of a  respective education system with the right to education under the ICESCR (UNESCO  and Right to Education Initiative, 2019, p. 77).  1.1.1 Availability Functioning educational institutions must be available in sufficient quantity. Function‐ ality requires, among other features, welland appropriately-trained teachers receiving  domestically competitive salaries, as well as appropriate teaching materials of good qual‐ ity. The provision shall be in accordance with the terms of economic capacity and needs  2 Katarina T omaševski was the UN Special Rapporteur on education from 1998 to 2004 and founder of  the Right to Education Initiative.The Human Right to Science Education Re-Examined 29  of a country. This includes facilities such as libraries, computer facilities, and informa‐ tion technology (CESCR, 1999, para. 6 (a)).  Art. 13 (2) (b) ICESCR states that secondary as well as vocational education shall  be “generally available.” This signifies that secondary education is neither dependent  on a student’s apparent capacity nor ability nor merit. Further, it means that secondary  education will be provided in a way that it is available to all without discrimination.  1.1.2 Accessibility Education in all its forms, institutions, and programs must be accessible to everyone  without discrimination. With regard to Art. 13 (2) (a) and (b), the CESCR clarifies  additionally that “the principle of non-discrimination extends to all persons of school age  residing in the territory of a State party, including non-nationals, and irrespective of their  legal status” (CESCR 1999, para. 34). Accessibility has several interrelated dimensions  (CESCR 1999, para. 6 (b); UNESCO and Right to Education Initiative, 2019, p. 77):  (i) Non-discrimination: Education must be accessible to all, especially to all indi‐ viduals or groups who find themselves in vulnerable conditions. The principle of nondiscrimination has to be implemented in law and fact. The Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs) stipulate in their Goal 4 on education the priority of non-discrimination,  however, in a slightly different wording: “Inclusion and equity in and through education  is the cornerstone of a transformative education agenda, and we therefore commit to  addressing all forms of exclusion and marginalization, disparities and inequalities in  access, participation and learning outcomes. No education target should be considered  met unless met by all.”3  (ii) Physical accessibility: Education has to be “within safe physical reach, either by  attendance at some reasonably convenient geographic location (e.g., a neighbourhood  school) or via modern technology (e.g., access to a ‘distance learning’ programme)”  ( CESCR 1999, para. 6 (b)). Physical accessibility is further specified in the Convention  on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), as well as in the Convention on the  Rights of Children (CRC). Inclusive education is based on the principle that all children  should learn together, regardless of their differences. Inclusive education recognizes  the capacity of every person to learn and acknowledges that each person has different  strengths, requirements, and learning styles. Inclusion, therefore, takes an individualized  approach with flexible and adaptable curricula as well as teaching and learning methods.  By taking into account differences among learners, inclusive education promotes respect  for and the value of diversity and seeks to combat discriminatory attitudes both in the  classroom and society. Inclusive education ensures every child’s eeffective access to edu‐ 3 Incheon Declaration and Framework for Action for the Implementation of Sustainable Development  Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities  for all (WEF, 2015, para. 7).30 Klaus Starl  cation. Reasonable accommodation includes the accessibility of facilities for people with  impaired mobility, allowing students extra time for their tasks if needed and guaranteeing  the same access for students with mental health support needs (UNESCO and Right to  Education Initiative, 2019, p. 91).  (iii) Economic accessibility: Education has to be affordable to all. This dimension  of accessibility is often underestimated or misunderstood. Firstly, economic accessibility  requires that admission to school be free. However, there are enormous costs besides  school fees. Secondly, the right to education requires an effective subsidy and fellowship  system (Art. 13 (2) (e) ICESCR). [Relative] poverty, social or economic status, or birth  must not prevent individuals from access to all forms and levels of education.  Accessibility means having the de facto  opportunities to access all forms and levels  of education. This relates to the social and cultural capital of a person. This concept of  “capabilities and the freedom to achieve well-being” (Sen, 1986) suggests a “pedagogy of  poverty” (Motakef, 2006, p. 19). In respect of social class and economic standing, the  considered education systems clearly fail. They tend to reproduce existing social and  economic inequality, as we learn from a long list of educational research (e.g., OECD,  2018; Schleicher, 2018). The scientific literature proves that the lower the household’s  disposable economic resources, the less likely it is that the student will achieve a high  degree of education. “Achieving greater equity in education is not only a social justice  imperative; it is also a way to use resources more efficiently, increase the supply of skills  that fuel economic growth, and promote social cohesion. Not least, how we treat the  most vulnerable students and citizens shows who we are as a society” (OECD, 2018,  p. 21).  The call for strict formal equality, building only on consistency of equal treatment,  was rejected by the CESCR as it “reflects inequality.” CESCR favors the concept of equal  opportunities in education. In addition to compensation for past disadvantages or less  favorable initial conditions (e.g., relative poverty), this includes so-called affirmative ac‐ tion. The committee states that “[t]he adoption of temporary special measures intended  to bring about de facto equality for men and women and for disadvantaged groups is not  a violation of the right to non-discrimination with regard to education” (CESCR, 1999,  para. 32).  The right to education is not limited to the right to access education but, in addition,  requires the right to receive an education of good quality (UNESCO and Right to Edu‐ cation Initiative, 2019, p. 131).  1.1.3 Acceptability “The form and substance of education, including curricula and teaching methods, have to  be acceptable (e.g., relevant, culturally appropriate and of good quality) to students and . . .  [their] parents . . . ” (CESCR, 1999, para. 6 (c)). The Human Right to Science Education Re-Examined 31  The requirement of education being relevant  indicates that science education certainly  is, as addressed by Art. 13 (2) (b) ICESCR on secondary and vocational education.  Taking a closer look at what is meant by culturally appropriate  reveals an obligation of  the State to deliver secondary and vocational education that is culturally sensitive toward  the diversity of students regarding teaching staff, curricula, and equipment. Any educa‐ tion shall be engaged in promoting the mutual understanding of cultures. Furthermore,  education shall be committed to enabling students to acquire the necessary knowledge  and skills for self-reliance in the various sectors of the economy and contribute to the  general welfare of the respective society (see CESCR, 1999, para. 16). The benchmarks  for the appropriateness are those measuring the achievement of the objectives of the right  to education. These include developing one’s personality, strengthening respect for hu‐ man rights, facilitating societal participation, and promoting understanding, tolerance,  and friendship among all national, ethnic, or religious groups. (For the implementation  in science education, see Tajmel, 2017).  Education shall be of good quality . The term “quality education” already appeared  in Art. 1 (2) CADE. The CRC General Comment 1 paras. 2 and 9 further specify the  mention of good quality in CADE: “The curriculum must also enable students to acquire  core academic knowledge (subject knowledge) and basic skills, including literacy and  numeracy. Literacy and numeracy are vital to the realization of the right to education  [. . . ] That being said, education should [. . . ] also impart ‘essential life skills,’ so that ‘no  child leaves school without being equipped to face the challenges that he or she can  expect to be confronted with in life.’ This includes such skills as: ‘the ability to make  well-balanced decisions; [. . . ] relationships and responsibility, critical thinking, [. . . ]’” .  SDG4-Education 2030 gives particular emphasis to quality education and learning.  Quality education includes a focus on strengthening STEM (science, technology, engi‐ neering, and mathematics) education (Incheon Declaration, 2015, p. 33). The content of  such education must be relevant with a focus on both cognitive and non-cognitive aspects  of learning, leading to informed decision-making. This can be achieved by education for  sustainable development (ESD)4 and global citizenship education (GCED)5 (Incheon  Declaration, 2015, p. 49).  4 ESD empowers learners to take informed decisions and responsible actions for environmental integrity,  economic viability and a just society, for present and future generations, while respecting cultural di‐ versity. It is about lifelong learning and is an integral part of quality education. ESD is holistic and  transformational education which addresses learning content and outcomes, pedagogy and the learning  environment. It achieves its purpose by transforming society. (UNESCO. 2014. Roadmap for Imple‐ menting the Global Action Programme on Education for Sustainable Development.) 5 GCED aims to equip learners with the following core competencies: a) A deep knowledge of global issues  and universal values such as justice, equality, dignity and respect; b) cognitive skills to think critically,  systemically and creatively, including adopting a multi-perspective approach that recognizes different  dimensions, perspectives and angles of issues; c) non-cognitive skills including social skills such as empa‐ thy and conflict resolution, and communicative skills and aptitudes for networking and interacting with  people of different backgrounds, origins, cultures and perspectives; and d) behavioral capacities to act 32 Klaus Starl  1.1.4 Adaptability The principle of adaptability requires education to adapt to the needs of changing so‐ cieties and respond to the needs of students within their diverse social and cultural  settings. The principle of adaptability applies to the education system as a whole as well  as to all forms and levels and all of its components, such as equipment in schools or  universities, teaching materials, curricula, and the knowledge and skills of the teaching  staff. Neglecting diversity in the supply and maintenance of education disadvantages  certain groups, particularly minorities or women, by limiting their access and acceptance.  This results in privilege being granted to others and is incompatible with the concept  of human rights. “When considering the appropriate application of these ‘interrelated  and essential features’ [the 4-A Scheme, remark of the author] the best interests of the  student shall be a primary consideration” (CESCR 1999, para. 7).  The SDG framework contributed another concern to the dimension of adaptability  of education, namely resilience. Education needs to be adaptable to emergency situations.  The chapter “Addressing education in emergency situations” clearly mentions pandemics  and their consequences. “Crisis is a major barrier to access to education.” The fact is that  education in emergency contexts has to be immediately protected, providing life-saving  knowledge and skills and psychosocial support to those affected by crisis. Therefore,  para. 26 states that “[c]ountries must institute measures to develop inclusive, responsive  and resilient education systems.” It is thus recommended to “[s]upport a comprehensive  approach to making schools resilient to disaster impacts of all sizes” through “safer school  facilities, school disaster management, and risk reduction and resilience education”) and  to “[p]rovide distance learning, ICT training, access to appropriate technology and nec‐ essary infrastructure to facilitate a learning environment at home and in conflict zones  and remote areas, particularly for girls, women, [. . . ]” (Incheon Declaration, 2015, p. 45).  What we witnessed during the coronavirus pandemic were severe weaknesses of ed‐ ucation systems. W e experienced governmental paternalism, sexism, unacceptability in  respect to quality of education, lack of adaptability, limited and selective access, even  availability issues in wealthy economies and self-complacency of governments deeming  their education systems effective and appropriate. In general, a human rights-based  approach to education by governments was lacking. The crisis revealed that too many  governments share the attitude that education is a duty of learners rather than their right.  Elderly male ministers were claiming that parents and students alike do not have to fear  that non-compliance with their duties would be sanctioned by the government.  Obviously alerted by these observations, the SDG-Education 2030 Steering Com‐ mittee published the Recommendations for COVID-19 Education Response on  2 April 2020:  collaboratively and responsibly, and to strive for collective good. (UNESCO. 2013. Outcome document  of the T echnical Consultation on Global Citizenship Education: Global Citizenship Education – An  Emerging Perspective.)The Human Right to Science Education Re-Examined 33  “Make inclusion and equity the guiding principle of all COVID-19 education responses.  Learning cannot stop – the protection of the right to education is all the more primordial in  times of crisis. The SDG-Education 2030 Steering Committee calls on all governments to  renew their commitment to leave no single learner behind. Inclusion and equity must be the  guiding principle of every educational response to prevent educational, socio-economic and  digital inequalities from widening and to ensure equal opportunities for all – especially for  the most vulnerable and marginalized, including refugees.”  1.2 Accountability States’ failure in complying with the standards of the right to education during the  emergency situation of COVID-19 leads us to discuss one further “A”: Accountability.  Even though not neglected by the CESCR, it was not incorporated in the 4-A Scheme,  probably because it cross-cuts all other “A’s.” Maybe, it was not considered an “A” be‐ cause of the lack of legal accountability at that time. However, arguing that all “A’s” are  interrelated and because of the optional protocol to the ICESCR on the justiciability  of economic, social, and cultural rights6, I propose a 4-A+ Scheme with reference to  the Right to Education Initiative (UNESCO and Right to Education Initiative, 2019,  chap. 8).  The Global Education Monitoring (GEM) Report defines accountability as “a pro‐ cess aimed at helping individuals or institutions meet their responsibilities and reach  their goals. Actors have an obligation, based on legal, political, social or moral justifi‐ cations, to provide an account of how they met clearly defined responsibilities”7.  Accountability has two core aspects: responsibility for compliance and liability for  implementation. The latter has a value for rights-holders only if there is an accessible  procedure for law enforcement available.  “Accountability starts with governments, as primary duty bearers of the right to education.  But the national legal framework must allow citizens to challenge the violation of the right  to education in court. Currently, this is possible only in 55 % of countries. The Steering  Committee highlights the importance for all countries of ensuring the right to education  be included in domestic legal frameworks and prominent in policy documents. Govern‐ ments should therefore take steps towards developing credible and efficient regulations  with associated sanctions for all education providers, public and private, that ensure nondiscrimination and the quality of education.”8  6 Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (adopted 10  December 2008, entered into force 5 May 2013) (Doc. A/63/435.) (OP-ICESCR). 7 UNESCO. 2017/8. Global Education Monitoring Report 2017/8: Accountability in education – Meet‐ ing Our Commitments. Paris, UNESCO, p. 2. 8 SDG-Education 2030 Steering Committee (March 2018), Statement of Support, Accountability and  the Right to Education, ED-2018/SC / 2.34 Klaus Starl  Remarkably, the GEM 2017 gives a specific argument for the human right to science  education by elaborating on the human rights accountability of SDG 4 objectives.9  Analysing SDG 4.3 (“ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality  technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university”), the paper states that  technical and vocational education and training (TVET) – however, not fully identical  with STEM education – is part of both the right to education and the right to work  (ICESCR, Articles 13(2)(c) & 6(2)). It applies to all levels of education (CESCR General  Comment 13, para. 15) and should be understood as a component of general education  (CESCR General Comment 13, para. 16). CEDA W applies TVET to women and girls.  CRC reaffirms that the ICESCR and CRPD prohibit discrimination in access to voca‐ tional education and requires States to ensure reasonable accommodation is provided for  persons with disabilities (Background paper, 2017, pp. 12–13).  2. The Human Right to Science “It is our responsibility to ensure that science and its applications are in harmony with the  full set of universal standards. A human-rights approach to science  must be at the heart of  what we want to be a sustainable future. Key steps are to define its normative content, to  elucidate the related state obligations, and also to consider what are the necessary conditions  for its implementation.” (Nada Al-Nashif, UNESCO Assistant Director-General for Social  and Human Sciences)10  “Science is more than a material dimension; it means access to knowledge. It is not only an  instrument to achieve material benefits but a cultural right in itself . More than access to  its applications, science means participation  and is essential to build democratic societies.  [. . . ] The second challenge is how to foster participation and make science as a human right a  reality. Science needs to be at the service of humanity. ” (Mikel Mancisidor, President of the  International Institute for the Human Right to Science and Vice-Chairperson of the UN  Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR))11  “When we connect science to social problem solving, we can enhance better understanding  on the importance of science. W e need to show how physics, chemistry, and formulas have a  value to improve knowledge on how to solve problems. Three essential tools are necessary to  make for continuous access to science: access to education at every level, access to informa‐ tion and communication technologies, and funding.” (Margaret Vitullo, Deputy Director of  the American Sociological Association (ASA))12  “Science, a Human Right: science centers and museums play an important role in making  science accessible to all . They share UNESCO’s objectives of linking science more closely  9 Paper commissioned for the 2017/8 Global Education Monitoring Report, Accountability in education:  Meeting our commitments. 10 At the Latin American and Caribbean Conference on Social Sciences held by the Latin American  Council of Social Sciences (CLACSO), in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on 21 November 2018. 11 See FN 10. 12 See FN 10.The Human Right to Science Education Re-Examined 35  with society, sharing scientific knowledge, and fostering the engagement of young people  in science, technology, and innovation.” (Flavia Schlegel, UNESCO Assistant DirectorGeneral for Natural Sciences)13  “The right to enjoy the benefits of scientific progress and its applications: A human rightsbased approach to science  can ensure inclusive access to the benefits of scientific ad‐ vancements, foster the place of women in sciences, and guide the establishment of sound  policies in ethical issues in science, innovation, and technology. UNESCO promotes the  right to share in scientific advancement by enabling those in marginalized communities to  contribute to and benefit from scientific progress. The Organization also takes action to  preserve the diversity of knowledge systems and the sustainable use of natural resources in  connection with the rights of indigenous peoples .  Science must respond to societal needs  and global challenges. Public understanding and  engagement with science , and citizen participation including through the popularization of  science are essential to equip citizens to make informed personal and professional choices.”  (UNESCO, 2018)14  “Capacity in science and technology is a key element in economic and social development.  Promoting science education at all educational levels , and scientific literacy in society  in general, is a fundamental building block to building a country’s capacity in science and  technology. Science education has been a priority for UNESCO since its inception.  Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics education (STEM) is important  for  developing and developed countries alike, to increase public awareness, understanding and  literacy regarding science, engineering and technology, [. . . ] Particular emphasis is given  to encouraging young people, and especially young girls, to pursue careers in science.”  ( UNESCO, 2018)15  “All people should benefit from scientific breakthroughs, of course. But with the complex  connections between emerging technologies and social systems, everyone also should have  the opportunity to engage with the science, technology, engineering and mathematics  (STEM)  fields and 21st century skills that make those discoveries possible. This should not  just be an opportunity, however. This is a basic human right. ” (Dorgelo, 2018)16  All these important statements were made right after the UNESCO’s General Con‐ ference passed the Recommendation on Science and Scientific Researchers in Novem‐ ber 201717. Out of these statements we can draw several conclusions for the right to  science education and on the human rights-based approach to its implementation:  – Science must meet all universal human rights standards.  – Science and technology are characteristic aspects of human culture.  13 At the W orld Science Day for Peace and Development 2018. 14 Available at https://en. unesco. org/ humanrights/ science  15 Available at https://en. unesco. org/ news/ sciencehumanrightneedunifiedconcept  16 Cristin Dorgelo 2018, Learning about science is a human right, available at https://blogs. scientificamer‐ ican. com/ voices/ learningaboutscienceisahumanright/  17 The Recommendation on Science and Scientific Researchers, UNESCO 2018, Adopted on 13 Novem‐ ber 2017 by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Orga‐ nization (UNESCO), available online at: en.unesco.org / recommendation-on-science36 Klaus Starl  – Participating in science and research is part of human culture.  – Benefitting from the results of science is a right, unless science is meaningless, as  science shall be focused on societal needs, and thus it must be relevant, of good quality,  and non-discriminatory in all its aspects.  – The access to knowledge, scientific practice, and its benefits must be inclusive and  needs to be guaranteed without discrimination.  – Knowledge about science is a precondition for informed personal decision-making.  – Participation in science requires scientific literacy, which shall be acquired through  science education.  – Science needs to be gender sensitive.  – Science needs to recognize the diversity of knowledge systems and the sustainable use  of natural resources in connection with the rights of indigenous peoples.  – Science must be socially responsible.  – Science institutions and states shall be accountable for guaranteeing responsibility,  quality, inclusiveness, and accessibility without discrimination.  These conclusions are in line with the provisions enshrined in the UNESCO Recom‐ mendation on Science and Scientific Researchers (2018), which guarantees that everyone  has the right to participate freely in the cultural life of the community and to share sci‐ entific advancement and its benefits. Science is a common good. Science education must  serve indigenous capability to perform science and scientific research and development  must serve indigenous peoples’ wellbeing in an enhanced spirit of responsibility towards  humankind and the environment.  Institutions are responsible for research and development, including science educa‐ tion (Art. 2 (c)). Research and development are an explicit part of the effort to build  a society that will be more humane, just, and inclusive in the protection and enhance‐ ment of the cultural and material well-being of its citizens in the present and for future  generations (Art. 4). Member States should take measures to ensure that without dis‐ crimination on the basis of “race, color, descent, sex, gender, sexual orientation, age,  native language, religion, political or other opinion, national origin, ethnic origin, so‐ cial origin, economic or social condition of birth, or disability, all citizens enjoy equal  opportunities for the initial education” (Art. 13 (a)). Further, these measures should  “(b) abolish inequalities of opportunities; (c) in order to remediate past inequalities and  patterns of exclusion, actively encourage women and persons of other under-represented  groups to consider careers in sciences, and endeavor to eliminate biases against women  and persons of other under-represented groups in work environments and appraisal.” Fi‐ nally, the recommendation calls for strengthening all sciences, technology, engineering,  and mathematics education, in schools and other formal and informal settings (Art. 14  (a)). Art. 24 (c) again highlights that the support for individuals from under-represented  groups entering and developing careers in research and development is a condition for  success. The Human Right to Science Education Re-Examined 37  3. The Human Rights-Based Approach to Science Education Human rights are rights of self-determination under the terms of equality of rights for  all. States have a threefold obligation for every human right: to respect, to protect, and to  fulfil the right of everyone without distinction. The fulfilment obligation has again two  important components: firstly, to promote and facilitate the de facto  enjoyment of hu‐ man rights and, secondly, to provide the means and opportunities to enjoy those rights.  Complying with these obligations is currently called a human rights-based approach.  The human rights-based approach to science education underscores the complemen‐ tary relationship between the right to education, on the one hand, and the right to  science, on the other, linked by the principles of accessibility and acceptability, and  guaranteed by the principle of accountability.  From the human rights perspective, both share the same standards, corroborated by  the SDG benchmarks. Science is a culture, and education enables individuals to partic‐ ipate in this culture. Science and education need to be inclusive, non-discriminatory,  and accessible for all. Science and education have quality standards in respect to social  responsibility. Both science and education, as rights, are empowerment rights, enabling  individuals to develop their full personality and to responsibly act within society. The  human rights-based approach to science education follows two complementary strands:  firstly, science is understood as the active act of doing  science; secondly, science offers  advancements from which we can benefit.  Science is relevant to humankind. Therefore, it needs to be accessible without dis‐ crimination. Furthermore, it needs to be acceptable in terms of quality, responsibility,  and accountability with regard to science content, research methodologies, and the shar‐ ing of knowledge and scientific results. Doing science requires skills besides academic  knowledge.  Enjoying the benefits of science is possible only when individuals are able to identify  the benefits as such. This requires critical and reflective thinking and decision-making,  as well as – again – the accessibility to these qualities without discrimination.  Education aims at the development of one’s personality, the ability to participate  in society, and an understanding of human rights and diversity as well as the values of  humankind. These objectives are measured against the 4-A+Scheme18.  4. The Way Forward The right to science education is rarely denied by international institutions and even  agreed upon by governments. The major question is (still) whether science education  in practice meets the quality standards of being relevant and appropriate, and whether  18 See section 1.2 on accountability.38 Klaus Starl  access is guaranteed so that “no one is left behind,” as required by the SDG framework.  Progress has been made, at least at the international policy level and with the respective  normative instruments and programmes. Y et there is a long way to go until education  systems and practice at the local level catch up with these developments.  Progress has certainly been made in many aspects. In Science Education Unlimited ,  we stated, “Barriers are exclusion mechanisms. W e do not speak about disadvantages  rooted in the identity of the individual. Barriers may be intentionally set or constructed,  but barriers can also exist as a consequence of historical developments and a lack of  socially necessary adaptation. Barriers, particularly barriers in the access to education,  are often not visible at first glance. Individual responsibilities for underperformance,  underachievement, limited access or whatever lack of opportunities are often suggested  as reasons, but only serve to build a barrier itself” (Starl, 2009). Even in 2020, access to  science education is limited for girls, and still some find the reason in the alleged lack  of interest of girls in STEM. In 2009, Tajmel revealed that a male culture is dominant  in STEM, hampering girls from participating in this area. The over-representation of  men in textbooks, lack of gender-sensitive content, missing female role-models, absence  of language-sensitive teaching methods, and the lack of opportunities for mentoring in  STEM were identified as the driving factors for under-representation in STEM (Tajmel,  2009; Tajmel, 2017). Furthermore, Hazedbegovic and Tajmel (2009) proved in their  comparison of the access to science education in Austria, Germany, T urkey, and BosniaHerzegovina that it is not girls’ lack of interest in science but, rather, the environment  which might be more or less selective. Meanwhile, these findings were confirmed by  UNESCO’s Global Education Monitoring reports: GEM 2016 showed that girls are  underrepresented in textbooks and curricula. GEM 2017 revealed that the lack of female  role-models and mentoring systems are root causes for fewer girls pursuing careers in  STEM. Finally, GEM 2019 confirmed the finding that South-Eastern European coun‐ tries offer better access to STEM compared to the rest of the world.  As a follow-up, the International Symposium on Human Rights and Equality in  STEM Education “Is Access to Science (Still) Limited” was organized in Berlin on the 1– 2 October 2018 under the auspices of then UNESCO Assistant Director-General Nada  Al-Nashif. The aim of the symposium was to reaffirm the right to science education by  a declaration passed by more than fifty scientists, education researchers, and politicians  and their affiliated institutions. The declaration reveals three core issues: the right to, the  access to, and the quality of science education. The declaration thus offers the following  recommendations for governments, education institutions, and researchers:  Education Institutions With reference to the UNESCO Recommendation on Science and Scientific Re‐ searchers, we call upon its Member States to take measures to actively encourage women  and persons of under-represented groups to consider careers in sciences and to peri‐The Human Right to Science Education Re-Examined 39  odically report on their success to the international community, as stated in Art. 13.  Further, with reference to the Montreal Declaration of the International Conference  on Human Rights Education 2017 (3. Specific Recommendation, 3.2 Higher Education  Institutions), States should take all measures to ensure that science educators at all levels  of education are trained in human rights and gain awareness of the right to science  education.  Research in STEM Researchers in the field of STEM should develop new knowledge and technologies, being  guided by critical reflection as well as by the vision of science as a common good. Novel  scientific knowledge should be constantly assessed regarding the reproduction of social  inequality. W e call upon the decision-makers in the field of science to provide the frame  for responsible research and to care for respective accountability at all levels.  Quality of STEM Education Within the responsibility of decision-makers in the education system, the knowledge  content of STEM, as conveyed through teaching material amongst others, should be  revised to take into account inclusiveness as described above and in the respective in‐ ternational standards. Furthermore, scientific content should be revised regarding the  conditions of social inequality under which the content was developed.19  References Official and Normative Documents Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR), General Comment No. 13 , The  Right to Education (Art. 13) , Twenty-first session, 8 December, 1999.  Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) (eds.), Dimensions of  Racism , United Nations, New Y ork, 2005.  Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD), Schleicher, Andreas,  PISA 2018, Insights and Interpretations , OECD, 2018.  SDG-Education 2030 Steering Committee (March 2018), Statement of Support, Accountabil‐ ity and the Right to Education, ED-2018/SC / 2.  SDG-Education 2030 Steering Committee (2 April 2020), Recommendations for COVID-19  Education Response. https://sdg4education2030. org/ sites/ default/ files/ 202004/SDGEduca  tion% 202030% 20SC% 20recommendations% 20% 20COVID19% 20education% 20response.  pdf  19 Declaration on the human right to science education, pp. 17–21.40 Klaus Starl  UNESCO, Convention against Discrimination in Education  (CADE 1960)  UNESCO, Convention on T echnical and V ocational Education 1989 .  UNESCO, Global Education Monitoring Report 2017/8: Accountability in education – Meeting  Our Commitments,  2017.  UNESCO, Outcome document of the T echnical Consultation on Global Citizenship Education:  Global Citizenship Education – An Emerging Perspective , 2013.  UNESCO, Recommendation concerning the Status of T eachers 1966 .  UNESCO, Recommendation on Science and Scientific Researchers  (2017)  UNESCO, Roadmap for Implementing the Global Action Programme on Education for Sustain‐ able Development , 2014.  UNESCO, Science Report  (2019)  UNHABITAT, Future cities, new economy, and shared city prosperity driven by technological  innovations   Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948.  UNO, Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against W omen   (CEDA W 1979).  UNO, Convention on the Rights of the Child  (CRC 1989).  UNO, Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities  (CRPD 2006).  UNO, International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights  (ICESCR 1966).  UNO, International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination   (ICERD 1965).  UNO, A/70/L.1 (25 Sept 2015) Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable De‐ velopment   WEF, Incheon Declaration and Framework for Action for the implementation of Sustainable  Development Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong  learning opportunities for all , WEF 2015.  Works Cited Dorgelo, C. (2018). Learning about science is a human right . Scientific American, 19 Novem‐ ber 2018. https://blogs. scientificamerican. com/ voices/ learningaboutscienceisahuman right/  Motakef, M. (2006). Das Menschenrecht auf Bildung und der Schutz vor Diskriminierung –  Exklusionsrisiken und Inklusionschancen . Berlin: Deutsches Institut für Menschenrechte.  Sen, A. (1986). Inequality Re-examined . Cambridge Massachusetts: Harvard University Press.  Tajmel, T. (2017). Naturwissenschaftliche Bildung in der Migrationsgesellschaft. Grundzüge einer  Reflexiven Physikdidaktik und kritisch-sprachbewussten Praxis.  Wiesbaden: Springer VS.  Tajmel, T. & Starl, K. (Eds). (2009). Science education unlimited. Approaches to equal opportuni‐ ties in learning science . Münster / New Y ork: W axmann.  T omaševski, K. (2005). Racism and Education. In United Nation Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization (UNESCO) (Ed.), Dimensions of Racism . Paris: UNESCO.  T omaševski, K. (2006). Human Rights Obligations in Education: The 4-A Scheme . Nijmegen:  W olf Legal Publishers.  UNESCO and Right to Education Initiative. (2019). Right to education handbook . Understanding the Human Right to Science:  CESCR General Comment No. 25 (2020)  Gerd Oberleitner  1. T owards a Human Right to Science: 1948 to 2020 The holistic approach of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) of 1948  included the cultural dimension of human life in its various expressions. The enjoyment  of scientific progress was considered an important element of this cultural dimension.  Consequently, the right to benefit from scientific advancements was conceived as a  cultural human right in the Declaration as Art. 27(1): “Everyone has the right freely  to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share  in scientific advancement and its benefits.” As Chapman and Wyndham (2013) have  argued, “the meaning and value of this choice are clearly open to interpretation.” The  American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, adopted in 1948 shortly before  the UDHR, contains a similar provision in Art. 13: “Every person has the right [. . . ]  to participate in the benefits that result from intellectual progress, especially scientific  discoveries.” In 1966, the right to benefit from scientific progress found its way into  the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR). In  Art. 15 of the Covenant, it became an internationally legally binding human right which  corresponds to specific state obligations. By ratifying the ICESCR, states assume legal  obligations to implement the rights recognized in that treaty in their domestic legislation  and policies and accept international accountability and supervision (including in the  form of individual complaints on socio-economic and cultural rights under the Optional  Protocol of 2008, which so far covers 24 state parties). While the non-binding provision  of the UDHR extends to all states, the legally binding human right to benefit from  scientific progress extends to the 171 state parties to the Covenant. The 22 states which  have to date neither signed nor ratified the Covenant and the four states which have only  signed but not ratified (including the USA) are nevertheless obliged to refrain from any  acts that would defeat the object and purpose of the treaty, as laid down in Art. 19 of the  Vienna Convention on the Law of T reaties.  Benefitting from scientific progress is thus a human right. However, the Covenant  captures three different and inter-related rights with relevance for science: it recognized  “the right of everyone to enjoy the benefits of scientific progress and its applications”  (Art. 15(1)(b)); formulated the duty of states to conserve, develop, and diffuse science  (Art. 15(2); and obliged states to respect the freedom indispensable for scientific re‐ search (Art. 15(3). Within Art. 15, these three elements were woven into the broader  framework of the right to participate in cultural life as provided for in Art. 15(1)(a), 42 Gerd Oberleitner  supported by the demand that states recognize the benefits of international contacts and  co-operation in the scientific field (Art. 15(4)) and contrasted by the individual entitle‐ ment that intellectual property rights be respected for scientific and artistic products  (Art. 15(1)(c)).1 The complex language, overlapping interlinkages, and vague content  of Art. 15 ICESCR gave rise to many questions as to the contour, scope, and utility  of constructing a human right to science and, for decades, relegated this provision to  the backyard of human rights theory and practice. In contrast, the issues to which the  right to science were obviously linked – the right to food in Art. 11 ICESCR; the right  to health in Art. 12 ICESCR; the right to education in Arts. 13 and 14 ICESCR; the  right to an adequate standard of living in Art. 11 ICESCR; the right to seek, receive,  and impart information in Art. 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political  Rights of 1966; academic freedom; the right to development, and the right to a clean and  healthy environment – received more attention and became better understood over time.  The human right to science, however, was largely dormant. As the American Association  for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) notes, “governments have largely ignored their  Art. 15 obligations, and neither the human rights nor the scientific communities have  brought their skills and influential voices to bear on the promotion and application of  this right in practice.”2  Attempts were made over time to clarify the human right to science, even though  academic literature on the subject is still scarce (e.g., Claude, 2011). The United Nations  (UN) General Assembly used its Declaration on the Use of Scientific and T echnological  Progress in the Interest of Peace and for the Benefit of Mankind of 1975 (UN GA  Res. 3384 (XXX)) to make a cautious link between science and human rights. The  Declaration was, however, framed in the pessimistic language of the Cold W ar and essen‐ tially argued that scientific and technological developments, while having the potential  to improve the conditions of life of peoples and nations, create social problems and  threaten human rights, fundamental freedoms, and peace. The Declaration merely urged  states not to misuse science and research to wage wars, interfere with human rights, or  oppress people. In 1993, the Vienna W orld Conference on Human Rights reaffirmed  1 Art. 15 ICESCR reads in full: “1. The States Parties to the present Covenant recognize the right of  everyone:  (a) T o take part in cultural life; (b) T o enjoy the benefits of scientific progress and its applications; (c)  T o benefit from the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary  or artistic production of which he is the author. 2. The steps to be taken by the States Parties to the  present Covenant to achieve the full realization of this right shall include those necessary for the con‐ servation, the development and the diffusion of science and culture. 3. The States Parties to the present  Covenant undertake to respect the freedom indispensable for scientific research and creative activity. 4.  The States Parties to the present Covenant recognize the benefits to be derived from the encouragement  and development of international contacts and co-operation in the scientific and cultural fields.” 2 https://www . aaas . org / programs / scientific responsibility human rights law / resources / article 15 /  about .Understanding the Human Right to Science: CESCR General Comment No. 25 (2020) 43  the right to benefit from scientific progress. In general language, it noted that certain  advances – notably in biomedical and life sciences as well as in information technology –  may have potentially adverse consequences for the integrity, dignity, and human rights of  the individual, and called for international cooperation to ensure that human rights and  dignity are fully respected in this area (Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action  1993, para. 11).  UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation,  took a more active standard-setting role in some important areas of human rights related  to scientific progress. The Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human  Rights of 1997, the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights of 2005, and  the Declaration on Ethical Principles of Climate Change of 2017 link scientific progress  to human rights. The 2005 Bioethics Declaration was indeed the first global instrument  to address the linkages between human rights and ethical questions in biotechnology  and life sciences (Andorno, 2018). With its Recommendation on Science and Scientific  Researchers of 2017, UNESCO positioned science as a common good and called for  balancing the freedoms, rights, and responsibilities of researchers. The organization also  championed the rights of marginalized groups and indigenous populations to contribute  to and benefit from scientific progress, preserve the diversity of knowledge systems, and  ensure the sustainable use of natural resources. In light of the gaps in understanding and  evaluating the human right to science, it was suggested that the procedure established  under UNESCO’s Executive Board decision 104 EX/Decision 3.3 (1978) for handling  complaints of alleged violations of human rights in its fields of competence could be  used more often to further the implementation of the human right to science; a sug‐ gestion which has, however, not yielded convincing results (3rdExperts’ Meeting Venice  2009, 10).  In 2005, the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights adopted its Gen‐ eral Comment No. 17 on the right of everyone to benefit from the protection of the  moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary, or artistic production  of which he or she is the author. The text clarified this very specific element of the right to  science but left larger questions unanswered. In 2009, experts adopted the “Venice State‐ ment” in the third of a series of meetings on the right to enjoy the benefits of scientific  progress and its applications, organised by UNESCO jointly with the European InterUniversity Centre for Human Rights and Democratisation (EIUC) and in cooperation  with the Amsterdam Center for International Law and the Irish Centre for Human  Rights. The meetings examined the scope of Art. 15 ICESCR, the interdependence and  interrelationship of the right to enjoy the benefits of scientific progress and its applica‐ tions with other human rights, the protection of intellectual property, and the linkages  between climate change, environmental protection, and the right to enjoy the benefits of  scientific progress. The Venice Statement and the accompanying report of the meeting  set the stage for subsequent debates. In 2012, the report of the UN Special Rapporteur  on cultural rights to the UN Human Rights Council focused on the right to enjoy 44 Gerd Oberleitner  the benefits of scientific progress and its applications (UN Doc. A/HRC / 20/26). The  report emphasized the link between the right to take part in cultural life and the right to  science in its different manifestations. The Special Rapporteur also considered the role  of marginalized people, the responsibilities of the private research sector, the importance  of open access to scientific knowledge and information, and the specific role of science  education. In 2018, UNESCO convened an expert meeting on the right to share the  benefits of scientific progress in the 8thLatin American and Caribbean Conference on  Social Sciences held by the Latin American Council of Social Sciences (CLACSO) in  Buenos Aires. T oday, the AAAS can be considered the most active contributor to the  debate on the contours and broader ramifications of the right to benefit from scientific  progress (Mancisidor, 2015, 1). Within its “Article 15 Project,”3 the AAAS has, over  the past decade and together with the AAAS Science and Human Rights Coalition,  explored the meaning of the right to science, which culminated in a global report in 2017  (Wyndham et al., 2017).  The most recent and influential development is, however, the adoption of the longawaited General Comment No. 25 by the UN Committee on Economic, Social and  Cultural Rights on 30 April 2020 (UN Doc. E/C.12/GC / 25). Under the guidance of  its Vice-Chairperson, Mikel Mancisidor, the independent expert body established under  ICESCR used its powers to identify core elements of Art. 15 ICESCR. The document  provides authoritative guidance on the content and limitations of the right to benefit  from scientific progress, identifies individual entitlements, and clarifies state obligations.  It will undoubtedly help governments, courts, and all stakeholders to better understand  the right to science. The General Comment defines science, highlights core obligations  of states, applies current human rights theory to conceptualize the right to science,  and outlines recommendations for immediate action. Like other General Comments,  it has the potential to influence future developments in international law, direct state  practice, inform civil society and the scientific community, and lead to practical means  and measures for implementing and evaluating progress in the human right to science.  A better understanding of the many manifestations of the human right to science  is paramount to deal with the human rights-related challenges of rapid scientific and  technological developments, allow meaningful participation in scientific advancement,  clarify the role of the scientific community, understand and manage the impact of sci‐ entific progress on the socio-economic situation of individuals and communities, redress  negative effects of globalization, and tackle discrimination, inequality, vulnerability and  poverty (3rdExperts’ Meeting Venice 2009, 4). The added value of a human rights ap‐ proach to science is its ability to focus not only on the ethics of scientists and science  but on broader societal and socio-economic impacts and to create rights and obligations  3 https://www . aaas . org / programs / scientific responsibility human rights law / resources / article 15 /  about .Understanding the Human Right to Science: CESCR General Comment No. 25 (2020) 45  of rightsholders and dutybearers on the basis of human rights law and principles such as  universality, participation, non-discrimination and equality. In light of current disregard  for science, scientific knowledge, and scientific progress in many circles, clarity on the  contours and potential of a human right to science is of utmost importance.  2. Content and Scope of the Human Right to Science 2.1 “Science”: Knowledge, Progress, Application General Comment No. 25 starts from the observation that science is one of the areas  of the Covenant to which states parties give least attention in their reports and dia‐ logues with the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (General Comment  No. 25, para 2). As for the content and scope of the human right to science, the General  Comment considers that Art. 15 CESCR consists of four distinct elements with regard  to states parties’ obligations: the obligation to respect the right to enjoy the benefits of  scientific progress and its applications (Art. 15(1)(b)), states’ obligations for the conser‐ vation, development, and diffusion of science (Art. 15(2)), respect for the freedom to  engage in scientific research (Art. 15(3)), and obligations to promote and cooperate in  the scientific field (Art. 15(4)). The General Comment relies on UNESCO’s definition  of science as laid down in UNESCO’s Recommendation on Science and Scientific Re‐ searchers of 2017, according to which science is  the enterprise whereby humankind, acting individually or in small or large groups, makes  an organized attempt, by means of the objective study of observed phenomena and its  validation through sharing of findings and data and through peer review, to discover and  master the chain of causalities, relations or interactions; brings together in a coordinated  form subsystems of knowledge by means of systematic reflection and conceptualization; and  thereby furnishes itself with the opportunity of using, to its own advantage, understanding  of the processes and phenomena occurring in nature and society (para. 1(a)(i)).  Science (understood as natural and social sciences) constitutes a process following a  certain methodology (“doing science”) as well as the results of this process, i.e., knowl‐ edge and applications (General Comment No. 25, paras 4–5). Knowledge is considered  scientific only insofar as it is based on critical inquiry open to falsifiability and testability  and is set apart from applied science as the implementation of science to a specific pop‐ ulation need (General Comment No. 25, paras. 5–7). The General Comment also goes  beyond science derived from research conducted by scientists and includes “citizen sci‐ ence” (General Comment No. 25, paras. 9–11). Science is thus understood in its twofold  manifestation as scientific progress which allows access to knowledge and material goods  and their applications and as a value and cultural right in itself because it enables creative  thinking, participation, and empowerment and provides individual sense and meaning as  an expression of human dignity. 46 Gerd Oberleitner  Consequently, the human right to science has also two interrelated aspects: the in‐ dividual right to enjoy the outcome of scientific research and its application, and the  right to participate in science as a cultural human right. The legal provisions on the right  to science do not make this distinction clear as they seem to stipulate merely a passive  entitlement to benefit from scientific progress. This omission has already been outlined  in the Venice Statement 2009:  “Participation in scientific progress is valuable in its own right, and while the benefits of sci‐ ence should be shared equitably, neither of these components of the right is a substitute for  the other. The right to share in scientific benefits should not be predicated on participation,  particularly where there is a direct threat to fundamental rights, most notably the rights to  life, health and food” (para. 11).  Different from ICESCR, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights used the phrase  “share in scientific advancement and its benefits” to signal this dual nature. It is worth  pointing out that the English word “share” in the UDHR is translated as “participate”  (“participer” , “participar”) in the French and Spanish versions of the text (General Com‐ ment No. 25, para. 10). General Comment No. 25 clearly acknowledges this dual and  positive character of the right to science: “The right enshrined in Art. 15(1)(b) encom‐ passes not only a right to receive the benefits of the application of scientific progress,  but also a right to participate in scientific progress” (para. 11). In effect, this is an inter‐ pretative extension of the “right to benefit from scientific progress” to a dual right “to  participate in and benefit from scientific progress” (a phrase which General Comment  No. 25 consistently uses instead of the wording of Art. 15 ICESCR).  The General Comment also postulates the essentially positive outcome of science.  Scientific “progress” (the term used in the ICESCR) or “advancement” (the term used  in the UDHR) denotes a positive perspective on science as a contributor to social,  economic, technological, and societal evolution and generally “the well-being of persons  and humankind” (General Comment No. 25, para. 7). The negative effects of scientific  development which have been so dominant in the debate in the 1970s and 1980s are  mentioned but not foregrounded. This tension between the positive and negative con‐ tributions of science will, however, remain central to the debate on the human right  to science. In a recent survey of academic studies on the human right to science, ob‐ servers found a range of reports which point towards the potentially negative effects  of scientific progress and the possibility for the dual use of science (e.g., technologies  such as CRISPR/Cas-9 gene editing), which can be used in ways respectful of, or con‐ trary to, human rights principles (Mann, Donders et al., 2018, 10821). Consequently,  General Comment No. 25 recounts some instances of such negative effects and argues,  for example, that while scientific and technological advancements have contributed to  the reduction of famine by making food more accessible, states still need to ensure that  scientific progress does not violate the rights of peasants and people working in rural  areas (General Comment No. 25, para. 63–65). Understanding the Human Right to Science: CESCR General Comment No. 25 (2020) 47  2.2 Sharing the Benefits of Scientific Advancement The central idea of the human right to science is to share the benefits of scientific  advancements with everyone. The notion of “benefit” remains, however, ambiguous.  General Comment No. 25 argues for a threefold understanding: firstly, benefits are  the direct material results of scientific research and its application – a new vaccine, an  improved fertilizer, a refined tool. Secondly, scientific progress is beneficial in itself  as it means creating and expanding knowledge which can be disseminated and shared.  And thirdly, science is the primary tool for forming critical and responsible citizens  able to participate fully in democratic societies (General Comment No. 25, para. 8). The  General Comment elaborates at length that the human right to benefit from scientific  progress must not merely be seen as science’s output but that science ultimately needs to  be understood as a cultural activity and thus a cultural human right (General Comment  No. 25, para. 9–10).  Furthermore, General Comment No. 25 argues that the right to enjoy the benefits  of scientific progress contains “interrelated and essential elements” (General Comment  No. 25, para. 15) which can be understood conceptually as corresponding to the “AAAQ”  framework (availability, accessibility, acceptability and quality) developed for socio-eco‐ nomic and cultural rights. When Art. 15 ICESCR is reframed in accordance with this  framework, diverse state obligations emerge. The right to enjoy the benefits of scientific  advancement needs to ensure availability (the states’ obligation to take steps for the  conservation, development, and diffusion of science), accessibility (which requires that  everyone has equal access to scientific progress and its application as well as to informa‐ tion regarding the risks and benefits posed by science), acceptability (efforts to ensure  science is explained and disseminated in a manner that facilitates public and community  acceptance and that incorporates ethical standards), and quality (states’ obligation to  regulate scientific applications and ensure access to verifiable science).  More specifically, the obligation of states to ensure the availability of the human right  to science and take steps for the conservation, development, and diffusion of science  means that scientific progress needs to be allowed to actually take place, that scientific  knowledge and its applications are effectively protected and disseminated, and that the  applications and benefits of scientific progress are distributed, especially to vulnerable  and marginalized groups. This includes the duty to secure a research infrastructure, re‐ search financing, and scientific education as well as providing for instruments for diffu‐ sion such as libraries, museums, or the Internet. In particular, the General Comment calls  upon states to promote open science and open source publication of research (General  Comment No. 25, para. 16). Accessibility means that scientific progress and its applica‐ tions are accessible for everyone without discrimination. T o this end, states must ensure  equal access to the applications of science, particularly when they are instrumental for the  enjoyment of other economic, social, and cultural rights. Information on the risks and  benefits of science and technology must be accessible without discrimination, and states 48 Gerd Oberleitner  need to ensure the opportunity to participate in scientific progress without discrimina‐ tion (General Comment No. 25, para. 17). Acceptability of the human right to science  means ensuring that science is explained and its applications are disseminated so as to fa‐ cilitate their acceptance in different cultural and social contexts without distorting their  integrity and quality. Scientific education and the products of science need to be tailored  to the particularities of populations with special needs and persons with disabilities. It  also implies that scientific research incorporates ethical standards to uphold scientific  integrity and human dignity, maximizes benefits for research participants, and minimises  possible harm through reasonable protection and safeguards. The autonomy and free and  informed consent of research participants and their privacy and confidentiality must be  respected. Vulnerable groups or persons need special protection, and cultural diversity  and pluralism must be respected (General Comment No. 25, para. 18). Quality in the  human right to science means ensuring that the most advanced, up-to-date, and generally  accepted and verifiable science is available in line with generally accepted standards in the  scientific community. It also includes regulation and certification processes to ensure the  responsible and ethical development and application of science, including the circulation  of new scientific applications for the public (General Comment No. 25, para. 19).  2.3 Access to and Participation in Science General Comment No. 25 elaborates at length on the participatory character of the right  to science. In line with accepted human rights theory on the duty of states to respect,  protect, and fulfil all human rights, the human right to science contains freedoms as well  as entitlement and entails positive as well as negative obligations of states (General Com‐ ment No. 25, para. 15). Access to science is an important element of the participatory  character of the human right to science. As has been argued elsewhere, “access to science”  can have multiple meanings: access for everyone to science education at every level as  the prerequisite to participate in science; access to information and communication  technologies as part of the freedom to express ideas and opinions; unimpeded access  to scientific knowledge and data as an essential precondition for any scientific inquiry;  access to research funding; or access to actively work and have agency in doing science  (Mann, Donders et al., 10822). Data transparency has been identified as a key issue  in the debate on access to science (Barham & Hubert, 2016, p. 3). Access to science is  thus a multi-stakeholder problem which affects not only researchers but pertains to the  general public. Of particular importance is access to available, accessible, acceptable, and  quality science education as part of the human right to education, as a contribution to  equality, and as a means of opening doors to scientific careers (Tajmel & Starl, 2009).  This necessitates addressing core concerns of access to and participation in science and  science education, such as non-discrimination, inclusivity, affirmative action for specific  groups, and gender equality in science and in STEM (science, technology, engineering  and mathematics) education. Understanding the Human Right to Science: CESCR General Comment No. 25 (2020) 49  General Comment No. 25 sees the right to participate in and to enjoy the benefits  of scientific progress in a broader sense as a means to realize other economic, social,  and cultural rights, particularly the right to food and health (General Comment No. 25,  paras. 63–71). In addition, the text acknowledges the impact of scientific knowledge  in decision-making and policies, which should be based on the best available scientific  evidence, as a means of participation. States are called upon to align their policies with  scientific evidence, promote public trust and support for sciences, and create a culture  of active citizen engagement with science, particularly through vigorous and informed  democratic debate on the production and use of scientific knowledge and a dialogue  between the scientific community and society. Decisions concerning the orientation of  scientific research or the adoption of certain technical advancements should be subjected  to transparent public scrutiny and citizen participation (General Comment No. 25,  paras. 54–55).  As one would expect, the principle of non-discrimination figures prominently in con‐ siderations on access to and participation in science and makes up an essential element of  the human right to science (General Comment No. 25, paras. 25–27). In addition, there  is also considerable concern for the protection and empowerment of specific groups  in the text. The underrepresentation of women in scientific activity is highlighted as a  particular problem. States are considered to be under the obligation to eliminate barriers  that affect girls’ and women’s access to quality scientific education and careers and ensure  their access by raising public awareness to eliminate stereotypes, establish quotas for  women in scientific education, ensure child care for female researchers, and enable a gen‐ der-sensitive approach to scientific research and research funding (General Comment  No. 25, paras. 29–33).  States should also promote the inclusion of persons with disabilities into science  by developing statistics disaggregated by disability on access to science and its benefits,  implementing technologies to facilitate access to scientific education and employment  for persons with disabilities, adopting appropriate measures to raise awareness of the  capabilities and contributions of persons with disabilities and combat stereotypes and  harmful practices, and ensuring that persons with disabilities give free, prior, and in‐ formed consent when they are subjects of research (General Comment No. 25, paras.  34–35). In order the ensure participation of persons living in poverty and affected by  structural inequality, states should adopt specific strategies to enhance access to scien‐ tific education, prioritize scientific and technological innovations that serve especially  the needs of persons living in poverty, and enable access to quality science education  (General Comment No. 25, paras. 36–38). The General Comment is aware of the way  in which indigenous peoples preserve traditional knowledge and calls for their inclusion  into a global intercultural dialogue for scientific progress to harness their input (General  Comment No. 25, paras. 39–40). 50 Gerd Oberleitner  2.4 Respecting and Protecting Scientific Freedom Art. 15(3) ICESCR establishes a clear obligation of states to “respect the freedom indis‐ pensable for scientific research.” In order to highlight the contours of this freedom, Gen‐ eral Comment No. 25 takes recourse to the UNESCO Recommendation on Science and  Scientific Researchers of 2017. Ensuring scientific freedom means protecting researchers  from undue influence on their independent judgment; ensuring their ability to define  aims, objectives, and methods of their research and to establish autonomous research  institutions; guaranteeing they can rely on their conscience to freely and openly question  the ethical value of research projects or withdraw from projects; ensuring the freedom  of researchers to cooperate with other researchers nationally and internationally; and  giving them the possibility to share scientific data and analysis with others (General  Comment No. 25, para. 13). This is in line with – although less exhaustive than – the  2009 Venice Statement, which considered the obligation to respect scientific freedom  as a core civil-political right based on freedom of thought, to hold opinions without  interference, and to seek, receive, and impart information and ideas of all kinds; respect  for the right of scientists to form and join professional societies and associations; duty to  actively protect scientific freedom by taking measures, including legislative measures, to  prevent and preclude the use of science and technologies by third parties to the detriment  of human rights; and duty to protect all human rights of persons subjected to research  activities by public or private institutions and respect their right to information and free  and informed consent (Venice Statement 2009, para. 14).  General Comment No. 25 also postulates that states refrain from interfering directly  or indirectly in the enjoyment of the right to science; eliminate barriers to accessing qual‐ ity science education and pursuing scientific careers; refrain from disinformation, dis‐ paragement, or deliberate misinformation intended to erode citizens’ understanding of  and respect for science and scientific research; and eliminate censorship or arbitrary lim‐ itations on access to scientific knowledge (General Comment No. 25, para. 42). General  Comment No. 25 also deals extensively with the duty of states to protect science from  undue interferences from third parties. The text finds that states are obliged to adopt  measures to prevent any person or entity from interfering with the right to participate  in and to enjoy the benefits of scientific progress and its applications through any form  of discrimination in universities, schools, laboratories, cultural or scientific associations,  or hospitals. States are required to ensure that scientific associations, universities, and  laboratories do not apply discriminatory criteria, protect persons from participating in  research or tests in contravention of ethical standards, and guarantee their free, prior, and  informed consent. States must prevent private persons and entities from disseminating  false or misleading scientific information, and private investment in scientific institu‐ tions must not be used to unduly influence the orientation of research or to restrict the  scientific freedom of researchers. Special protection is warranted for persons who, owing  to their age or capacity, cannot decide on their own whether they benefit from scientific Understanding the Human Right to Science: CESCR General Comment No. 25 (2020) 51  progress. The General Comment gives the example of parents who refuse to have their  children vaccinated on grounds the scientific community considers false – a situation  where parental decisions entail risks for the child and society. States must also guarantee  everyone the right to choose or refuse a treatment and establish protective measures in  relation to messages from pseudoscience (General Comment No. 25, paras. 43–44).  2.5 Developing Diverse, Inclusive, and Cooperative Science In addition to the obligation to respect and protect the human right to science, states  have a range of obligations under Art. 15 ICESCR to fulfill the right with a view towards  developing diverse, inclusive, and cooperative science. The overall aim must be to cre‐ ate an enabling and participatory environment for the conservation, development, and  diffusion of science and technology which includes equal access and participation of all  public and private actors, capacity-building and education, and technology transfer. The  Venice Statement of 2009 has already envisaged the contours of this obligation (paras.  14–16). According to this text, states must adopt a legal and policy framework and  establish institutions which promote, develop, and diffuse science and technology in a  manner consistent with human rights. Such policies need to be periodically reviewed in  a participatory and transparent process, with particular attention to the status and needs  of disadvantaged and marginalized groups. It means promoting access to the benefits  of science and its applications in a non-discriminatory way that addresses the needs of  disadvantaged and marginalized groups. It requires states to monitor potentially harmful  effects of science and technology, respond to the findings, and inform the public in  transparent ways. States have to take measures to encourage and strengthen interna‐ tional cooperation and assistance in science and technology in line with international  law, provide opportunities for public engagement in decision-making about science and  technology and their development, and institute effective science curricula at all levels  of the educational system, particularly in state-sponsored schools, so as to develop skills  necessary to engage in scientific research.  General Comment No. 25, likewise, sees a positive duty of states to actively promote  the advancement of science through education, investment in science and technology,  allocation of appropriate resources in budgets, and by generally creating an enabling and  participatory environment for the conservation, development, and diffusion of science  and technology. States should use the maximum of their available resources to overcome  obstacles for persons and disadvantaged groups to benefit from new technologies and  scientific advancements. As a principle, the General Comment considers that scientific  progress must be accessible and affordable to persons in need of specific goods or services.  Knowledge about scientific progress and its applications needs to be made available and  accessible to the general public through schools, universities, technical colleges, libraries,  museums, print and electronic media, and other channels, considering age, language, or  other aspects of cultural diversity. In light of the importance of scientific literacy, states 52 Gerd Oberleitner  are called upon to ensure equitable and open access to scientific literature, data, and  content, including by removing barriers to publishing, sharing, and archiving scientific  outputs. Any restriction on the right to publish research results needs to be compati‐ ble with the limitations clause of Art. 4 ICESCR, and states are called upon to ensure  that contractual restrictions placed on this right are consistent with the public interest,  reasonable, and proportionate, and that appropriate crediting and acknowledging of  the contributions of scientific researchers to the research outcomes is ensured (General  Comment No. 25, paras. 45–50).  The General Comment considers also the duty to cooperate internationally towards  the fulfillment of all economic, social, and cultural rights, as stipulated by Arts. 2 and  15(4) CESCR (General Comment No. 25, para. 77). Arguing for a human right to  science is increasingly understood as supportive for research collaboration, particularly  for disadvantaged researchers and research communities (Gran et al., 2019). In light of  recent developments, the General Comment considers pandemics as “a crucial example  of the need for scientific international cooperation to face transnational threats” and  comes out in support of the W orld Health Organization (General Comment No. 25,  para. 82). It also argues for an extraterritorial obligation of state parties to regulate and  monitor the conduct of multinational companies over which they can exercise control,  including due diligence obligations and the duty to respect the right to participate in  and enjoy the benefits of scientific progress and to provide legal remedies to victims  of such companies (General Comment No. 25, para. 84). With regard to the right to  health, the General Comment calls on states to prioritize the promotion of scientific  progress to facilitate better and more accessible means for the prevention, control, and  treatment of epidemic, endemic, occupational, and other diseases (General Comment  No. 25, para. 67).  2.6 Protection From Adverse Effects of Science General Comment No. 25 considers also the possible negative effects of new technolo‐ gies, albeit in a more general way, and mentions artificial intelligence, robotics, 3D  printing, biotechnology, genetic engineering, quantum computers, and management of  big data as areas of concern. It considers new emerging technologies as enhancing the  enjoyment of economic, social, and cultural rights but warns that adequate policies and  measures must be put in place to counter social inequalities and discrimination (General  Comment No. 25, paras. 72–76). This list could easily be amended: stem cell research,  cloning, nanotechnologies, nuclear energy, or genetically modified organisms are all areas  of potential danger, not to mention weapons research (Shaheed, 2012). Access to medical  research data may provide one of many examples where such impact needs to be consid‐ ered and trade-offs might be necessary, depending on the weighing of the right to privacy  against general welfare (Mann, Donders et al., 2018, 10821–22). General Comment  No. 25 accepts the possibility that, as with other human rights, the human right to science Understanding the Human Right to Science: CESCR General Comment No. 25 (2020) 53  needs to be limited when it adversely affects other human rights. It argues, however, that  any limitation on the right to participate in and enjoy the benefits of scientific progress  must be established by law, promote the general welfare, and be proportionate to the aim  pursued (General Comment No. 25, para. 21).  3. Limitations 3.1 Science Ethics and Precautionary Principle Limitations of the human right to benefit from scientific progress may stem from con‐ sideration of scientific ethics, when self-imposed ethical boundaries for research restrict  otherwise desired or acceptable practices and outcomes. The 2009 Experts’ Meeting on  the Human Right to Science has already considered that human rights impact assess‐ ments of scientific research should be envisaged as an integral part of the development of  science (3rdExperts’ Meeting Venice 2009, 16). In particular, the application of the pre‐ cautionary principle may require limits for science based on caution to avoid irreparable  harm to the public or environment, due to the open-ended nature of scientific research  (Venice Statement 2009, para. 12(g)). General Comment No. 25 also accepts that, in  the absence of scientific certainty, unacceptable harm needs to be avoided. Such harm  is defined as threats to human life or health which are serious and effectively irreversible,  inequitable to present or future generations, or imposed without adequate consideration  of the human rights of those affected (General Comment No. 25, para. 56). General  Comment No. 25 calls for testing scientific advancements in medicine or food produc‐ tion to avoid possible damage to individuals and the environment and cautions that  information and communication technologies need to consider data protection, privacy,  and prevention of hate speech (General Comment No. 25, para. 72–76). At the same  time, it acknowledges the controversial character of this principle in relation to scien‐ tific freedom, without further elaborating on the problem (General Comment No. 25,  para. 57).  3.2 Intellectual Property Rights As the Venice Statement 2009 has upheld, “the right to enjoy the benefits of scientific  progress and its applications may create tensions with the intellectual property regime,  which is a temporary monopoly with a valuable social function that should be managed  in accordance with a common responsibility to prevent the unacceptable prioritization  of profit for some over benefit for all” (para. 10). As far as potential clashes between  freedom of science and the protection of intellectual property rights are concerned, a  balance must be struck among the interests of authors and inventors and public needs  and interests. This tension has yet to be delineated with greater clarity. General Com‐54 Gerd Oberleitner  ment No. 25 considers states under the obligation to take appropriate measures to foster  the positive effects of intellectual property on the right to participate in and to enjoy  the benefits of scientific progress and its applications, while at the same time avoiding  negative effects. States are expected to provide adequate financial support for research  that is important for the enjoyment of economic, social, and cultural rights; delink re‐ muneration of successful research from future sales; and guarantee the social dimensions  of intellectual property in accordance with international human rights obligations they  have undertaken to reach a balance between intellectual property and the open access  and sharing of scientific knowledge and its applications, especially those linked to the  realization of economic, social, and cultural rights such as the rights to health, education,  and food. The Committee clearly sees intellectual property in its social function and  demands that states prevent unreasonably high costs for access to essential medicines,  plant seeds or other means of food production, and schoolbooks and learning materials  (General Comment No. 25, para. 62).  4. Core Obligations and Immediate Measures General Comment No. 25 argues that, in line with the accepted understanding of socioeconomic human rights, states parties to the ICESCR have the general obligation to take  steps, to the maximum of their available resources, for the full realization of the right to  participate in and to enjoy the benefits of scientific progress and its applications (General  Comment No. 25, para. 23). They are also under the obligation to eliminate all forms of  discrimination and overcome persistent inequalities in scientific education, design, and  implementation policies (General Comment No. 25, paras. 24–27). This relates in par‐ ticular to groups that have experienced systemic discrimination in the enjoyment of the  right to participate in and to enjoy the benefits of scientific progress (General Comment  No. 25, para. 28). The General Comment is particularly focused on states’ obligations  to provide additional guidance and measures to remedy the exclusion of women, persons  with disabilities, persons living in poverty, and indigenous peoples in scientific progress  (General Comment No. 25, paras. 29–40).  In addition to these general demands, the General Comment lays down core obliga‐ tions with which state parties have to make “every reasonable effort to comply” (General  Comment No. 25, para. 41). Such core obligations are to eliminate laws and policies that  limit access to certain groups or individuals (such as laws and policies that undermine  women’s and girl’s participation in scientific areas), implement a participatory national  framework and strategy that includes remedies for violations of this right, ensure access  to basic scientific education and skills, prioritize research in areas where there is need  for scientific progress (such as health, food, and other basic needs), adopt mechanisms  and policies that are based on accepted scientific evidence, ensure training of health pro‐ fessionals on the use of technologies and medicines that result from scientific progress, Understanding the Human Right to Science: CESCR General Comment No. 25 (2020) 55  promote accurate scientific information and avoid deliberately misinforming the public,  implement protections against pseudoscience-based practices, and foster development of  international contacts and cooperation in the scientific field (General Comment No. 25,  paras. 41–51). As with other socio-economic and cultural rights, retrogressive measures  are presumed to be unacceptable (General Comment No. 25, para. 24).  As a matter of principle, but without clear guidance, the General Comment also  extends obligations to guarantee the human right to science to non-state entities, par‐ ticularly private companies operating in the scientific field. The Venice Experts’ Meeting  2009 has already flagged the problem that scientific research by private businesses needs  to be considered when it comes to funding, distribution, and impact of research output,  which the experts considered a public good rather than a mere investment (Experts’  Meeting Venice 2009, 7). While intellectual property rights are at the centre of attention  (and are dealt with by the General Comment), the broader implications of the human  right to science for the private sector need yet to be explored.  Finally, the General Comment accepts a certain discretion of state parties in achiev‐ ing the full realization of economic, social, and cultural rights but puts forward four key  measures for the immediate realization of the right to participate in and enjoy the bene‐ fits of scientific progress: establishing a normative legal framework that protects against  all forms of discrimination; developing a national plan to promote and disseminate sci‐ entific progress to all individuals which takes into account protections against misleading  pseudoscience as well as ensuring ethical standards in science; identifying benchmarks to  monitor the implementation and progress of the right to enjoy the benefits of scientific  progress at the national level; and establishing judicial and administrative mechanisms to  allow victims’ access to appropriate remedies (General Comment No. 25, paras. 86–89).  5. Conclusion General Comment No. 25 clarifies the scope, content, limitations, and utility of the  human right to science and will facilitate and channel the debate and practice on this  particularly challenging provision of the ICESCR in the years to come. The text is timely  in light of accelerating scientific progress and parallel anti-scientific bias and backlash.  It positions science as a human activity in need of guidance by the international human  rights regime and considers the human right to science as a multi-faceted cultural human  right which is closely connected to other cultural, civil, economic, political, and social  rights. Where the General Comment moves along established human rights theory, it  does so convincingly and clarifies scope and content of the human right to science.  The General Comment discloses the fourfold character of the human right to science  as an obligation to respect the right to enjoy the benefits of scientific progress and its  applications; care for the conservation, development, and diffusion of science; respect  scientific freedom; and facilitate scientific cooperation. With the General Comment, the 56 Gerd Oberleitner  Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights effectively rephrases the wording  of Art. 15 ICESCR so as to encompass the twofold meaning of the human right to  science: enjoying the benefits of the application of scientific progress and participating  in scientific progress. Direct material benefits, intrinsic knowledge production, and the  indirect effects of science in creating responsible, informed, and active citizens form  part of the human right to science as a cultural right which presupposes access to and  education in science.  This is particularly relevant for inclusive and quality STEM education as a prerequi‐ site for effective participation in science. As the General Comment repeatedly highlights,  science education is the linkage between the right to science as a cultural human right and  the human right to education. Non-discriminatory, inclusive science education with a  particular focus on girls and women reflects the broader societal and socio-economic im‐ pacts of the right to science. The General Comment clearly delineates the respective state  obligations to develop inclusive science systems and ensure quality scientific education at  all levels and acknowledges specific needs of disadvantaged groups to participate in and  benefit from science education. States have to eliminate barriers to science education  and scientific careers in universities, schools, technical colleges, laboratories, and other  places of science. The right to science education needs to be part of national action plans,  legislative measures, school curricula, and the design of educational institutions to ensure  the right to participate in science.  The AAAQ scheme, which has proven to be so helpful in understanding the scope  of socio-economic and cultural rights, is applied here as well and will steer states toward  their obligations to secure the availability, accessibility, acceptability, and quality of the  human right to science. States need to take steps for the conservation, development,  and diffusion of science, ensure equal access, explain and disseminate scientific progress  in line with ethical standards, and regulate scientific applications. Instead of decrying  the lofty nature of the human right to science, states can now implement their core  obligations such as eliminating discriminatory laws and practices, guaranteeing women’s  and girl’s participation in scientific research, and providing scientific education to all.  The General Comment tells governments clearly to adopt the legal framework and na‐ tional action plans on the promotion and dissemination of scientific progress, establish  benchmarks for monitoring the implementation and progress of the right to enjoy the  benefits of scientific progress, and set up judicial and administrative mechanisms to allow  victims’ access to appropriate remedies in case of violations. The General Comment is  equally strong on scientific freedom and suitably broad on states’ obligations to facilitate  (national and cross-border) scientific cooperation in times of COVID 19. It has also  taken a position on the link between the protection of intellectual property rights, which  it considers in its public function and its implications for the human right to science.  Beyond that, the General Comment will certainly be vigorously debated. Many of the  topics dealt with and much of the guidance given will undoubtedly lead to discontent  and will lead to a robust engagement by the human rights movement, the scientific Understanding the Human Right to Science: CESCR General Comment No. 25 (2020) 57  community, and policy circles. The General Comment reveals a range of difficult ques‐ tions awaiting answers in theory and practice. What exactly does it mean that states  are under the obligation to promote accurate scientific information, avoid deliberately  misinforming the public, and reject pseudoscience-based practices, e.g., in the field of  medicine? How can political decision-makers be asked to rely on the best available  scientific evidence in light of scientific disagreements? What are the contours, means  and limits of “citizens’ science”? Should scientific communities implement quotas for  female scientists? How does private research funding have to be regulated in line with  international human rights law? Which barriers to publishing, sharing, and archiving  scientific outputs need to be removed? And what exactly does the General Comment  say on the human rights implications of vaccinations? The General Comment is also,  understandably, tentative in reaching into the regulation of private research entities and  businesses and extraterritorial human rights obligations for research corporations as it  needs yet to connect with ongoing debates and initiatives in these fields.  With General Comment No. 25, the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural  Rights has marked an important milestone. The human rights movement will read the  text and so will governments. More importantly, however, the scientific community  should engage with the arguments in the General Comment so as to live up to its  particular responsibility to act on human rights and be aware of the impacts of sci‐ entific developments on human rights (Wyndham & Vitullo, 2018, p. 975). There are  promising signs that ever more scientific disciplines have begun to embrace the human  rights framework and particularly the human right to science as a starting point for  building consensus on governing principles for responsible scientific and technological  advancements (Boggio et al., 2019, p. 134). General Comment No. 25 provides a starting  point, guidance, and challenge for this necessary debate among members of the scientific  community.  References Documents American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, adopted 2 May 1948  3rdExperts’ Meeting on the Right to Enjoy the Benefits of Scientific Progress and its Applica‐ tions, Venice, 16–17 July 2009, UNESCO doc. SHS/RSP/HRS-GED / 2009/PI/H/1  Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General Comment No. 17 (2005) on the  right of everyone to benefit from the protection of the moral and material interests resulting  from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he or she is the author (article 15,  paragraph 1 (c), of the Covenant, UN Doc. E/C.12/GC / 17 (12 January 2006)  Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General Comment No. 25 (2020) on  science and economic, social and cultural rights (article 15 (1) (b), (2), (3) and (4) of the  International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), UN Doc. E/C.12/GC /  25 (30 April 2020) 58 Gerd Oberleitner  International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, adopted 16 December 1966  International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, adopted 16 December 1966  Report of the Special Rapporteur in the field of cultural rights, Farida Shaheed: The right to  enjoy the benefits of scientific progress and its applications, UN Doc. A/HRC / 20/26 (14  May 2012)  (Revised) UNESCO Recommendation on Science and Scientific Researchers, adopted 13  November 2017  UNESCO Declaration on Ethical Principles in Relation to Climate Change, adopted 13  November 2017  UNESCO Declaration on the Use of Scientific and T echnological Progress in the Interest of  Peace and for the Benefit of Mankind, adopted on 10 November 1975, UN doc. GA Res.  3384 (XXX))  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted 10 December 1948  Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights, adopted 19 October 2005  Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights, adopted 11 November 1997  Venice Statement on the Right to Enjoy the Benefits of Scientific Progress and its Applications,  adopted by the 3rdExperts’ Meeting on the Right to Enjoy the Benefits of Scientific Progress  and its Applications, Venice, 16–17 July 2009, UNESCO doc. SHS/RSP/HRS-GED /  2009/PI/H/1 https://unesdoc . unesco . org / ark: / 48223 / pf0000185558 ? posInSet = 2 &  queryId= NEXPLOREf1eae16b1cf8483e894 f2b9218df26ca  Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted 25 June 1993  Works Cited Andorno, R. (2018). The Role of UNESCO in Promoting Universal Human Rights – from  1948 to 2005. In C. Caporale and I. Pavone (eds.), International Biolaw and Shared Ethical  Principles: the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights  (pp. 7–21). Oxford:  Routledge.  Barham, K., & Hubert, A.-M. (2016). The International Human Right to Science and its Ap‐ plication to Geoengineering Research and Development. The University of Calgary Faculty of  Law Blog . Retrieved from https://ablawg. ca/ wpcontent/ uploads/ 2016/ 08/ Blog_ KB_ AH_  RightScience_ Sept2016. pdf  Boggio, A., Knoppers, B. M., Almqvist, J. & Romano, C. P.R. (2019). The Human Right to  Science and the Regulation of Human Germline Engineering. The CRISPR Journal , 2 (3),  134–142.  Chapman, A. & Wyndham, J. (2013). A Human Right to Science. Science , 340 (6138), 1291.  Claude, R. P. (2011). Science in the Service of Human Rights . University of Pennsylvania Press.  Gran, B. K., Bryden, A., Frezzo, M. & Dale, J. (2019). The Human Right to Science, Conference:  The Social Practice of Human Rights, 89. Retrieved from https://ecommons. udayton. edu/  human_ rights/ 2019/ events/ 89  Mancisidor, M. (2015). Is There Such a Thing as a Human Right to Science in International  Law?. ESIL Reflections , 4 (1). Retrieved from https://esilsedi. eu/ wpcontent/ uploads/  2015/ 04/ MancisidorReflectionW ord. pdf  Mann, S. P., Donders, Y., Mitchell, C., Bradley, V. J., Chou, M. F., Mann, M., Church, G. &  Porsdam, H. (2018). Opinion: Advocating for Science Progress as a Human Right. Proceed‐Understanding the Human Right to Science: CESCR General Comment No. 25 (2020) 59  ings of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA , 115 (43), 10820–10823. Retrieved from  http://www. pnas. org/ content/ 115/ 43/ 10820  Mann, S. P., Mitchell, C., Porsdam, H. & Donders, Y. (2017). The Human Right to Enjoy  the Benefits of the Progress of Science and its Applications. Open Peer Commentary. The  American Journal of Bioethics , 17 (10), 34–36. Retrieved from https://www. tandfonline.  com/ doi/ full/ 10. 1080/ 15265161. 2017. 1365194  Tajmel, T. & Starl, S. (Eds.). (2009). Science Education Unlimited. Approaches to Equal Opportu‐ nities in Learning Science . W axmann.  Wyndham, J.M., Vitullo, M.W., Kraska, K., Sianko, N., Carbajales, P., Nuñez-Eddy, C., & Platts,  E. (2017). Giving Meaning to the Right to Science: A Global and Multidisciplinary Ap‐ proach, Report prepared under the auspices of the AAAS Scientific Responsibility, Human  Rights and Law Program and the AAAS Science and Human Rights Coalition. Retrieved  from https://www. aaas. org/ sites/ default/ files/ s3fspublic/ reports/ Right_ to_ Science_ Re‐ port. pdf .  Wyndham, J. M. & Vitulla, M. W. (2018). Define the Human Right to Science. Science , 362  (6418), 975. Modelling the Human Rights Approach to Science Education  T anja T ajmel  1. Introduction The aim of this chapter is to highlight different, albeit mutually interacting dimensions  which shape and enable or disable access to what is broadly understood as science or  STEM education. STEM stands for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics  and is an acronym that has become common in the context of education. In this chapter,  I posit that human rights – and particularly the right to education – provide a suitable  normative framework for the evaluation and definition of the values of science and  access to science education. It is an approach grounded in the principles of sustainable  development and anti-discrimination for a more equitable science.  The human rights-based approach centers on the individual’s right to science educa‐ tion and, thus, helps to decenter other interests that are linked to science education. It  also provides a framework to reflect on the definition and standardization of science  education. It contributes to a reassessment of the values of science and its education  and opens discussion on the benefits of science by simultaneously questioning assim‐ ilative approaches that lead to marginalization of other knowledge traditions. It also  requires scrutiny of power relations beyond the classroom. Historically, the sciences and  science education have been an exclusive field. Institutionalized with the establishment  of the academies of sciences across Europe in the 17thand 18thcentury, the sciences  and academic education were accessible only to men, and the construction of science  as a masculine endeavor was closely linked to social order and the distribution of labor  (Schiebinger, 2004; W ajcman, 2010).  T oday, the STEM fields are considered of utmost relevance to the development of  modern societies, for innovation and progress. Education and STEM are of both sociopolitical and economic interest. Arguments focusing on the promotion of STEM to  increase the pool of workers required by industry have become indistinguishable from  arguments to promote STEM for the empowerment of the individual and for the sake  of social equity and public welfare. The importance of diversity  and a diverse workforce   is often expressed in managerial terms without addressing underlying power relations  (Zanoni & Janssens, 2004; Zanoni et al., 2009), a shift also apparent in science education  research (Tajmel, 2017). A skilled workforce in STEM fields is highly sought after (Bybee  & Fuchs, 2006), accompanied by intense promotion activities and generous funding in  industrialized countries.  The very special approach of this book is its focus on human rights and, more specif‐ ically, the right to STEM education. Aligned with this approach, underrepresentation  is understood as a result of exclusion and discrimination, practices that enable access 62 Tanja Tajmel  to STEM for some and hamper access for others (Tajmel & Starl, 2009). The field  of STEM represents a certain scientific culture and reproduces or reinforces certain  social inequalities in an intersectional manner. T o contribute to a better understanding  of these intersections, I present in the following a model of a rights-based approach  to science education that draws on research and concepts from different disciplines.  I refer to law and social studies to further an understanding of social difference and  intersectionality (Baer, 2009; Crenshaw, 1989; Anthias, 2013; 2003; Winker & Degele,  2009; 2011), and to feminist theory to inform an understanding of science as gendered  (Keller, 1985; Harraway, 1988; Harding, 1991; 2006; Schiebinger, 2003). I further draw  on educational studies that deal specifically with marginalization in education (Leiprecht  & Lutz, 2006; Gomolla & Radtke, 2009) and address science education from a sociocultural perspective (Lemke, 1990; 2001; 2011; Aikenhead, 1996). Furthermore, the  considerations presented here draw on studies that lay out how “others” are produced  discursively (Fairclough, 1989; van Dijk, 2001) and in the context of colonial power  relations (Said, 1978; Spivak, 1994). Notably, science education research that looks at  representations of science and scientists in textbooks and the curriculum contributes  to the understanding of how science education reinforces and co-constructs stereotypes  (Costa, 1995; King & Domin, 2007; Willems, 2007; Sunar, 2011; Zanon et al., 2021) and  how these are reflected in students’ views of science (Chambers, 1983; Kessels & Taconis,  2011). Finally, decolonizing research methodologies (Kovach, 2009; Smith, 2012) are  considered fundamental to a redefinition and reassessment of scientific values to make  science education acceptable to learners.  I aim to explain why it is necessary to critically investigate the mechanisms of exclu‐ sion that are embedded in science and science education to better understand disparities  in STEM fields. This approach distinguishes itself from others that conceptualize dis‐ parities in science as consequences of individual differences between students. Such ap‐ proaches focus on individuals and their (non-)match with science rather than on science  itself. I posit that human rights can provide a normative framework to inform changes  in science and science education that go beyond compensatory measures for so-called  underperforming students. Further, I explain the limitations of the diversity approach,  as it does not provide a critical framework to question underlying power relations that  shape and define science and its accessibility. I argue that only by recognizing science  education as social-difference-constructing and -reproducing activity is it possible to  realize the right to science education as an empowerment right that respects the dignity  of all human beings.  2. Human Rights in or to STEM Education? Two different concepts need to be distinguished to further understand what the human  right to STEM education means as opposed to human rights (plural) in STEM education. Modelling the Human Rights Approach to Science Education 63  The latter describes the incorporation of human rights content in the science curricu‐ lum. Students might learn about human rights in the science classroom. For example,  discussing human rights violations in the context of demonstrations against a nuclear  power plant would be teaching human rights. T eaching the Sustainable Development  Goals and focusing on specific goals that relate to science would also make human rights  a topic in the science classroom.  The human right (singular) to STEM education describes the right of individuals to  access science education. Such human rights can be – but are not necessarily – the content  of science education and thus part of the science curriculum. From this perspective, every  individual has the right to education in science or STEM fields. The right to science  education neither defines what science education is nor what science is. But whatever  is considered science education must be accessible for every individual.  The human rights approach thus provides a possible normative framework for science  education that is independent from usability considerations and centers on individual  human beings and their rights rather than the importance of STEM education for na‐ tional or economic interests. The human rights approach is a rights-based approach –  neither opinion-based nor usability or employability-based – and as such provides a  robust alternative framework to the output-oriented usability approach widely used in  science education and also in shaping standardized tests and curricula (see Sjøberg in this  book). The difference between the two approaches can be best illustrated in differing  answers to the following questions: Why should people gain a science education? Why is  the marginalization of certain groups (often referred to as “lack of diversity”) in STEM fields  a problem?   From the output-oriented perspective, one would say “People should get a science  education because a scientifically literate and skilled workforce is important for national  development and progress, for the economy and technological innovation.” Another  more management-oriented argument would claim that “diverse” teams produce better  outcomes and, therefore, it is necessary to increase “diversity,” which includes increasing  the representation of people from underrepresented groups in STEM. These arguments  rarely question the underlying social power relations and historical-political causes of  underrepresentation or marginalization, such as discrimination based on gender, race,  social class, body, and other grounds. Likewise, these approaches generally do not ques‐ tion science as socio-cultural praxis that has actively contributed to difference-making.  (Think of the “scientific proof” of race or gender.)  The answer to the above-mentioned questions from a human rights perspective is  rather simple: People should get a science education because it is their right. This right is  independent from economic exploitation and national purposes. Regardless of whether  there is a (national) “need” for a scientific workforce, everybody must have access to  science education. This is probably the most challenging point in understanding the right  to science education and the right to education in general. If a justification was to be  given, it would probably be something like “because everybody wants it to be everyone’s 64 Tanja Tajmel  right, and nobody wants to be excluded”1. There is neither question of purpose nor need  for further justification. It is like the right to free speech: Why should everybody have  the possibility to express their opinions freely if they wish? Because it is their right.  Similarly, everybody must have access to literacy education because it is fundamental to  full participation in society. Human rights provide a normative framework that does not  require further justification. In this sense, the right to science education can be compared  to a scientific axiom, that is, taken to be true without further justification required.  3. The Politics of STEM Education T o understand the interrelation of STEM education, participation in society, contribu‐ tions to science, and social (in)equity, I look more closely to the socio-political aspects of  science education : What is science education and who defines it?   3.1 Science Educational Standards What a society considers as science – and thus science education – is a product of the  historical development of the sciences, knowledge traditions, power relations, and edu‐ cational politics (Latour, 1987; Haraway, 1988; 1991; Lemke, 1990). STEM education  has commonly been defined as learning about content and methods in the sciences, tech‐ nology, engineering, and mathematics (and related fields), whereas science traditionally  comprises disciplines such as physics, chemistry, and biology. W e could, then, further  ask, “What is science, technology, engineering, and mathematics?” and we will find a  variety of definitions. Jay Lemke emphasizes the need to see the natural sciences and their  mediation as parts and instruments of power-political interests, stating that “science  had to be understood as a very human activity whose focus of interest and theoretical  dispositions in any historical period were, and are, very much a part of and not apart  from the dominant cultural and political issues of the day” (Lemke, 2001, p. 298).  Currently, educational standards define what science education is. They provide the  framework for curricula and for student assessments. Standards are considered necessary  to ensure quality and to prevent malpractice in whatever context. Setting standards is  a means toward consensus on what can be expected from a person who gains a science  education. However, standard setting also includes judgement, selection, and valuation  of which knowledge is relevant, which content and methods should be taught, which  skills are important, and which knowledge traditions should be carried forward. Stan‐ dards legitimize what is meaningful and worth training for. Standard setting decisions are  1 In his “Grundlegung einer Ethik des Willens” (Foundation of an Ethics of the Will), Malte Hossenfelder  shows that the normative of human rights is not only a set norm but also an intended  norm based on the  will of individuals (Hossenfelder, 2000).Modelling the Human Rights Approach to Science Education 65  based on value systems and are, therefore, closely linked to culture and politics. Science  has politics, and science education has politics, too.  Setting standards is a powerful act, as it means no less than defining science edu‐ cation (see Sjøberg in this book). In other words, competencies and skills that are not  represented by official standards are not considered “science competencies.” Neither  this chapter nor this book claims to define science education; however, it emphasizes  that any definition or institutional legitimation of science education is an act of power  that manifests knowledge authority. In a merit-based system, so-called underperforming  students or students who do not meet the standards of STEM education do have much  lower chances of accessing the STEM fields and of actively participating in scientific  and technological development. Meeting the standards is the entrance ticket to colleges,  universities, and a scientific career. T esting scientific standards is a process that filters  those who, from the socio-cultural perspective, have successfully adapted or assimilated  to the science culture and acquired the required skills and competencies, and even the  required ways of thinking and behaving. Sjøberg (in this book) highlights the many skills  and competencies that are not being tested in international student assessment programs  but which are important nonetheless, such as collaborative skills essential to scientific  research activities. In summary, it is important that educational standards be based on  a broad consensus of all social groups. Currently, they predominantly reflect outputoriented interests and values.  3.2 Critique and Values The STEM fields are currently confronted with unprecedented critique from different  angles. Recent movements such as # ShutDownAcademia and # ShutDownSTEM (Chen,  2020; Crane & Liverpool, 2020) indicate a lack of acceptability of the STEM fields.  STEM fields are seen as closely related to White supremacy for several reasons, just to  name a few:  – they predominantly refer only to knowledge of W estern / Eurocentric tradition as  legitimate knowledge;  – scientific narratives center Europe and the Greek ancient world as the origin of sci‐ ence;  – White persons are predominantly presented as scientists; and  – science and technology played an important role in making imperialism and coloniza‐ tion possible.  Another angle of critique comes from science deniers – with scientific scepticism boom‐ ing during the Covid-19 pandemic. Thus, a reconsideration of scientific values and  constructive critique of science proves challenging at the interface of scientific conser‐ vativism and scientific denial. Research funding plays an important role in triggering  and steering re-evaluation processes in science. Recent developments in some coun‐66 Tanja Tajmel  tries’ funding policies, e.g., Canada’s Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council  (SSHRC, 2019), that may allow for a redefinition of what science is (and could be)  include funding of research and knowledge creation that includes diverse knowledge  traditions, such as Indigenous knowledges, and modifying eligibility criteria to provide  access to funding for people with other than formal academic degrees. Tying funding to  the condition of training students from marginalized groups, requiring that questions  of equity, diversity, and inclusion in research design be addressed, increasing diversity of  research teams, and promoting interdisciplinary research are all promising mechanisms  to trigger processes that re-evaluate academic and scientific values in the long term.  4. Diversity and Difference Increasing diversity in STEM fields is commonly seen as a solution to counteract  marginalization and inequity in STEM fields. Diversity is often defined as “differences  in race, color, place of origin, religion, immigrant and newcomer status, ethnic origin,  ability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and age” (for example,  SSHRC, 2021). For the human rights-based approach, it is important not to focus on  diversity categories in an essentialist manner; therefore, it is necessary to examine the  meaning of diversity further.  Based on certain characteristics and attributions, categories are formed, people are  categorized, and social group affiliations are constructed. Categories are used in prohi‐ bitions of discrimination, such as the anti-discrimination directives applicable to the  private sector, which, for instance, refer to the categories gender and (dis)ability. W e  consider difference important because it structures social power relations and enables  discrimination as a common and systemic practice. Considering sexual orientation is  important because there is discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. Considering  religion is important because of discrimination on grounds of religion, and so forth.  However, this approach carries the risk of trying to fix problems through compensatory  measures, and not through fundamental structural changes.  The right to education refers to the human rights system, and since differences are  constructed by immanent classifications, in this system no categories are allowed. Instead  of categories, the European equal treatment law uses the term “discrimination grounds.”  Prohibited grounds include gender, ethnicity, age, religion, and disability. Since grounds  of discrimination are ultimately the result of attribution processes, Baer et al. argue  for the term categorization  instead of grounds, characteristics, or identities (Baer et al.,  2010). The term categorization implies the processual character in which categorizations  are produced constantly. Instead of ethnicity, Baer et al. suggest ethnicized belonging  (racialization instead of race, and culturalization instead of culture); instead of gender,  they suggest gendering; instead of disability, they suggest disabled development; instead  of age, they suggest biochronologization. Modelling the Human Rights Approach to Science Education 67  Y et here arises a dilemma: on one hand, ascriptions fix people to certain character‐ istics and construct identities; on the other hand, there seems to be no solution other  than constructing groups to counteract inequality and discrimination. It seems that coconstruction of categories must precede their deconstruction. For example, counteract‐ ing discrimination against Black women requires the characterization of a particular  group that invokes the categories gender and race. In short, categorization is useful and  necessary as long as it reduces and prevents disadvantages or discrimination. However,  categorizations fail in their purposes if the processes of categorization contribute to dis‐ crimination and result in disadvantages such as the reinforcement of stereotypes. Which  and how many categories are taken into account depends also on research traditions  that differ internationally (e.g., the differences between North American and European  research with regard to the construction vs. deconstruction of gender [see Winker &  Degele, 2009, p. 14]).  5. Conceptualizing Disparities – The Difference Approach Although problematic for a variety of reasons, international student assessment pro‐ grams provide evidence of the unequal distribution of education among different social  groups in society. Disparities in student performance are an indicator of unequal oppor‐ tunity and the existence of barriers that hamper access to science education.  From a standardsand output-oriented perspective, underperformance is interpreted  as a lack of skills and competencies – a deficit in students. A solution could be found in  supporting underperforming students through pedagogical measures, such as teaching  and learning practices, to help them reach the standards. Let this approach be called  the difference approach . In the difference approach, students are differently distributed  among levels of performance, and we see respective underrepresentations and overrepre‐ sentations of specific groups at these different levels (Fig. 1).  Problematic with this approach is that underlying principles of power relations re‐ main unconsidered. Poor performers are not simply individuals, but their representation  among different social groups is significantly different. Since underperformance and  educational disparities are closely linked to marginalization, science education becomes  a question of social equity rather than learning and teaching styles. In fact, reducing the  problem (that is, the different performances of different social groups) to a pedagogical  question would mean to de-contextualize science education from its politics.  When we consider standards as constructs, the measured scientific performances of  students assessed according to these standards are constructs, too. Students who per‐ form well are those who have successfully acquired skills and knowledge in line with  the standards. Glen Aikenhead speaks of assimilation processes (Aikenhead, 1996), and  Jay Lemke highlights the important role of language in delineating who belongs to  science and who does not (Lemke, 1990; 2001). “Speaking science” encompasses more 68 Tanja Tajmel  Figure 1: Diverse students distributed among performance levels  in STEM. The differently filled circles represent different social  groups.  . . . well performing students; could be White, from  academic families,male   . . . poorly performing students; could be Black, poor,  female   than communicating a certain scientific content. It includes communicating knowledge  authority and knowledge power relations by using certain linguistic means (cf. Tajmel,  2009; 2011). Students’ assessments also measure how well students have adapted to this  specific culture and language of science.  T raining more students from marginalized groups in STEM and increasing diversity  without simultaneously considering underlying power relations leaves the culture of  STEM fields and its inequity-reproducing praxis rather unquestioned. T o sustainably  counteract marginalization in science, the processes that are embedded in science edu‐ cation and that reinforce social difference must be revealed, too. The right to education  provides an appropriate framework for this endeavor.  6. The Human Rights Approach to Science Education T ranslating the right to education as norm into the research and praxis of science educa‐ tion and scrutinizing science educational efforts requires the frameworks and underlying  principles that I outline below. Modelling the Human Rights Approach to Science Education 69  6.1 All Human Beings are Equal in Dignity and Rights The human rights approach is a pragmatic approach centered on the individual human  being. There are only two a-priori conditions for this approach that one must agree on:  equality and equity (fairness). Equality encompasses the consensus that all human beings  are equal, at least in the one fact that they are human beings. Equity means that no group  should be privileged in their rights. This is the essence of human rights.  The starting point for examining education from the perspective of human rights  cannot begin with “diverse” students since diversity categories are regarded as social  constructs. Likewise, the concept of individual student – or even “student” itself – is  a social construct. For example, when we talk of the underperformance of Black female  students in STEM, we are dealing with a manifold of social constructs: Black refers to  racialization, and female to gender. Student, too, is a social construct because it describes  a position in a pedagogical relationship. Even STEM is a social construct, a body of  knowledge compiled, selected, and defined by a certain knowledge authority (be it sci‐ entists, curriculum makers, or standard setting institutions). The starting point for the  human rights approach must lie before the social constructs, in other words, with human  beings themselves, as illustrated in Figure 2. The empty circles are human beings, they  are equal in being human beings, and they all have the same rights. From this starting  point, there is no need to consider age, gender, class, body, race, etc., as these “filters of  difference” are removed from our considerations to understand the deeper meaning of  human rights. Each single human being – every circle – has the same right to science  education.  Figure 2: Human beings versus diverse students  The next step is to look at the disparities in STEM performance from the perspective  of the equality of human beings. This picture differs from Figure 1, which illustrates  different students  distributed differently among the performance levels. In Figure 2 we  see equal human beings vs. diverse students, and, in Figure 3, we see equal human  beings becoming  different AND being distributed differently among the performance  levels.  For example, Figure 1 illustrates that, for example, female students are performing  more poorly than male students, whereas Figure 3 tells us that human beings are becoming   female / male AND poor / good performers. It links the construction of social difference 70 Tanja Tajmel  Figure 3: Human beings becoming different and distributing un‐ equally among different performance levels in STEM  to performance. From this perspective emerges an important question for the field of  science education: How is science education contributing to these difference-making pro‐ cesses ?  6.2 Considerations of Difference and Intersectionality For the human rights-based approach to science education, it is important to avoid  using categories of difference in ways that essentialize and naturalize them. Difference  is regarded as constructed, and to understand the intersection of different factors that  produce inequity, different levels of analysis and their connections must be taken into  account. Gabriele Winker and Nina Degele suggest a multilevel approach which makes  it possible to link the construction of difference to three levels: (i) the level of societal  structures, institutions, and organizations as macro and meso levels, (ii) the processes  of identity formation as micro level, and (iii) cultural symbols as representational level  (Winker & Degele, 2011).  For the field of science education, the three intersectional levels can be described as  follows:  (i) Structural level: The structural level is essentially spanned by institutional frame‐ works and specifications at all levels of science education. These include, for example,  the structure of the educational system, entrance and transition regulations, regulations  for formal qualifications in STEM fields, STEM teacher education, approval of STEM  teaching material, educational standards for STEM fields and their institutionalized  assessments, and institutionally accredited content, curricula, methods, and knowledge  traditions.  (ii) Identity level: On the level of identity construction are located both the address‐ ing and positioning of students. Here, “STEM identities” are developed which determine  the “fit” of students to STEM fields. Attributions of “interest” or “talent” can be located Modelling the Human Rights Approach to Science Education 71  Figure 4: Levels where difference-making happens: Identity construction, representation, and struc‐ ture.  on this level, too. A student’s self-perception of talent in science is seen as the result of  identity-constructing processes and of the provided identity options which are inter‐ nalized by students and contribute to how they identify themselves. Support measures  that address these constructed identities are also located on this level since they are coconstructing identities. For example, the measure to counteract underrepresentation of  women in engineering by establishing a “women in engineering” group addresses human  beings as “women” (and, thus, co-constructs gender), and is also co-constructing the  “woman as engineer,” which evokes certain attributes and identity options provided  by the engineering culture 2. (For the problem of operating with categories in diver‐ sity mentorship programs, see also Spintig & Tajmel in this book). Commonly known  statements such as “you do not look like an engineer” are also located on the level of  identity construction since they inherently suggest that there are certain characteristics  of a person’s appearance based on which engineers can be identified.  (iii) Level of representation: This level includes STEM symbols, rituals, behavior,  habitus, and values. Also included on this level are authorities and “heroes” in STEM  fields – those considered famous and important scientists. The level of representa‐ tion also includes everything that is generally considered “usual” and common sense  (Geertz 1997), such as the idea that “physics is difficult” and requires specific “talent.”  The intersectional multilevel analysis provides a valuable framework to consider dis‐ crimination in access to science education in a differentiated way. Another framework  2 W endy Faulkner describes the dilemma resulting from these options in the gender in / authenticity –  in / visibility paradox (Faulkner, 2006): The more engineers are perceived as women, the less they are  perceived as authentic engineers, and vice versa.72 Tanja Tajmel  that helps to structure the analysis of access to science education is the 4-A scheme (see  Sec. 7).  6.3 Examples for Intersection on Different Levels Depending on the intersections of identity construction, structures, and representation,  access to science education is either guaranteed or hindered. Intersections arise, for ex‐ ample, in areas of teacher training, teaching processes, and specific support measures.  Regarding teacher vocational training, the factors to consider are structural (What is  the institutional role of the teacher?), representational (What is science? What is to  be taught?), but also identity-constructing (Who is considered a good science teacher?).  Structural-level factors determine whether science is taught as a subject, in which grades  the subject is taught, which standards apply to the subject, which teaching materials are  approved for the subject, and how formal degrees in science can be obtained. Represen‐ tational-level factors determine understanding of the subject and the profession, such as  what makes a good science teacher and what constitutes science teaching, or who and  what belongs to the culture of science. Another example is teaching and learning pro‐ cesses, which are intersections of representational factors (What is science?) and iden‐ tity-constructing factors (Who identifies with science? Who is considered “talented” for  science? What does a scientist look like?). Specific support measures represent an area  largely determined by educational policy, thus, structural-level factors (What should be  supported?) as well as identity-forming factors (Who should / needs to be supported?).  7. The 4-A Scheme of the Right to Science Education The 4-A scheme structures the right to science education and overall access to this right.  The understanding of access to science education represented here means access that is  non-discriminatory and economically, geographically, and physically possible on the one  hand, as well as access to all forms of education (and thus to formal educational qualifi‐ cations and educational success) on the other. This understanding of access is specified  in the 4-A scheme and includes the aspects availability , accessibility , acceptability , and  adaptability , which together define access to education in a broader and differentiated  way (Table 1). According to this understanding, the fact that science is offered in school  as a school subject – indeed that there are schools and teachers – demonstrates availability  of science education, but it is not sufficient to consider access to science education as  given.  The 4-A scheme has already been outlined by Klaus Starl in this book. Here, I briefly  describe the specifications that apply for the case of science education and link the 4-A  to the intersectional levels of identity construction, representation, and structure. Modelling the Human Rights Approach to Science Education 73  (i) Availability of Science Education The provision and availability of science education is considered given where there are  schools, educational equipment, and teachers sufficient for exercise of human rights, and  where teacher training and employment respect labor rights. Availability entails an edu‐ cational offering that is available to a sufficient extent. This also includes extracurricular  initiatives, such as projects. However, no privileges must be created for certain groups due  to scarce educational resources. Availability does not automatically imply that science  education is accessible to and acceptable for all learners.  (ii) Accessibility to Science Education Science education must be legally, physically, and economically accessible to all. Ac‐ cessibility refers primarily to the independence of science education from the person’s  social or cultural capital. The current disparities in science education indicate that these  general institutional barriers also indirectly hinder access to science education. Accessi‐ bility entails that the content and subject matter of science education is designed such  that all students can relate to it. On the one hand, this includes making science lessons  understandable for all students in terms of language and content and enabling them to  connect science to everyday contexts without privileging experiences of a certain group  (cf. Lemke, 1990; Aikenhead, 1996). On the other hand, all students must be enabled  to participate actively in the classroom (e.g., by specific support measures to acquire  proficiency in the language of schooling). Accessibility to science education also implies  that educational success must be accessible.  (iii) Acceptability of Science Education Acceptability is closely related to levels of identity construction and representation.  Acceptability means that science education must be free of discrimination and must  not place specific groups of students in privileged positions. Support measures that are  based on deficit-oriented attributions of characteristics, or that directly or indirectly  co-construct difference in unnecessary ways by evoking the impression of homogeneity  of “the other,” must therefore be questioned (e.g., “physics for girls”; “science camp  for marginalized groups”). Critical reflection on acceptability entails reflecting on the  construction of STEM identities and cultural representations of science. For example,  textbooks that predominantly showcase male White persons as scientists are not con‐ sidered acceptable because they privilege a specific group by providing role models for  identification, while not empowering other groups in a similar fashion. The Declaration  on the right to science education outlines acceptability of science education as follows:  “Science education must be acceptable to learners. It needs to be up-to-date and presented in a  way that learners can get full benefit of learning, as well as using science for their own benefit. 74 Tanja Tajmel  Acceptability includes the knowledge content and research. Knowledge and research which re‐ produces inequality is therefore regarded as not acceptable. The identities that are co-constructed  and reproduced through science and STEM education and the manner in which individuals are  identified, addressed, tokenized and positioned within science education, must be acceptable to  the individuals and may not harm the individuals’ dignity. Acceptability of science education  excludes any form of stigmatization by its content, its methodologies, its didactics or its applica‐ tions.”  (see Declaration on the human right to science education  on p. 24)  This definition calls for a reconsideration and re-evaluation of the content of science  education. Content that reinforces binaries and harms students’ dignity (e.g., by posi‐ tioning them as inferior) is not considered acceptable. Of particular interest is the as‐ sessment of acceptability of science education for Indigenous students. The Declaration  on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples states in Article 15, para 1: “Indigenous peoples have  the right to the dignity and diversity of their cultures, traditions, histories and aspirations  which shall be appropriately reflected in education and public information.”  (UN General  Assembly, 2007, Art. 15, para. 1)  T ranslating the Rights of Indigenous Peoples to the 4-A-scheme would mean that  science education which does not appropriately reflect traditions, histories, cultures, and  aspirations of Indigenous peoples in a non-discriminatory way cannot be considered  acceptable and is, therefore, not appropriately fulfilling the right to education for In‐ digenous peoples.  (iv) Adaptability of Science Education The principle of adaptability states that science education must be flexible enough to  adapt to the changing needs of society and its individuals. Adaptability refers particularly  to the structural level but also to the level of representation and identity construction.  The Covid-19 pandemic has tested adaptability of educational systems in unprecedented  ways. How quickly were educational systems able to adapt to distance learning and to  provide continuous education? Which groups were privileged in this situation? Did  science education address the new realities, especially of vulnerable groups, and was the  content adapted accordingly to empower all students equally? How quickly was science  education able to adapt to principles of anti-racist and anti-sexist education? Adaptabil‐ ity is measured not only in terms of effort but, more importantly, in terms of outcomes.  The persisting underrepresentation of women, racialized people, and Indigenous peoples  in STEM fields, as well as the dependence of educational success on social background  indicate that it has not yet been possible to adapt science education accordingly. Adapt‐ ability also means that teachers have a repertoire at their disposal to be able to respond  to differentiated needs. Adaptability also entails having the necessary flexibility at the  structural / institutional level to enable quick adaptations. Modelling the Human Rights Approach to Science Education 75  T able 1: The 4-A Scheme by Katharina T omaševski (2001, p. 12 f.).  8. Conclusion In this chapter, I have outlined a model for the right to science education based on the  4-A scheme, taking into account intersectional levels of difference making. The aim  is to place equality of human beings and their rights as individuals at the center, and  to contribute to the understanding of difference and diversity, of underrepresentation  in performance, and of marginalization of groups in the context of science education.  For assessing and evaluating the fulfillment of the right to science education, the 4-A  scheme provides the necessary structure, differentiating between availability of science 76 Tanja Tajmel  education, accessibility, acceptability, and adaptability. Acceptability, in particular, is  an important notion which refers to quality of science education, as outlined in the  Declaration on the right to science education (see chapter in this book). Science edu‐ cation that entails content, knowledge, methods, and applications that reinforce power  relations and increase binaries is not considered acceptable. The rights-based approach  to science education provides an alternative for education researchers and practitioners,  policy makers, curriculum developers, to reassess values and goals of science education  apart from outcome-oriented usability considerations, and to understand science as a  common good and science education as a human right.  References Aikenhead, G. (1996). Science Education: Border Crossing into the Subculture of Science. In  Studies in Science Education , 27 (1), 1–52.  Anthias, F. (2013). Intersectional what? Social divisions, intersectionality and levels of analysis.  Ethnicities , 13(1), 3–19.  Baer, S. (2009). Equal Opportunities and Gender in Research: Germany’s Science Needs a Pro‐ motion of Quality. In T. Tajmel & K. Starl (Eds.), Science Education Unlimited. Approaches  to Equal Opportunities in Learning Science  (pp. 103–110). Münster / New Y ork: W axmann.  Bybee, R. W. & Fuchs, B. (2006). Preparing the 21st Century W orkforce: A New Reform in  Science and T echnology Education. In Journal of Research in Science T eaching , 43 (4), 349– 352.  Chambers, D. W. (1983). Stereotypic Images of the Scientist: the Draw-A-Scientist T est. In  Science Education , 67 (2), 255–265.  Chen, S. (2020). Researchers around the world prepare to # ShutDownSTEM and ‘Strike For Black  Lives’ . Retrieved from https://www. sciencemag. org/ news/ 2020/ 06/ researchersaround worldprepareshutdownstemandstrikeblacklives [accessed 30 June 2021]  Costa, V. (1995). When science is “another world”: Relationships between worlds of family,  friends, school, and science. In Science Education , 79 (3), 313–333  Crane, L. & Liverpool, L. (2020). Researchers on strike. New Scientist  246 (3287), 14–15. URL:  https://doi. org/ 10. 1016/ S02624079(20)310903 [accessed 30 June 2021]  Crenshaw, K. (1989). Demarginalizing the Intersection of Race and Sex: A Black Feminist  Critique of Antidiscrimination Doctrine, Feminist Theory and Anti-racist Politics. In The  University of Chicago Legal Forum , 1989, 1. URL: http://chicagounbound. uchicago. edu/ cgi/  viewcontent. cgi? article= 1052& context= uclf [accessed 30 June 2021]  DeBoer, G. E., & Bybee, R. W. (1995). The goals of science curriculum. In R. W. Bybee & J. D.  Mclnemey (Eds.), Redesigning the science curriculum: A report on the implications of standards  and benchmarks for science education  (pp. 71–74). Colorado Springs: Biological Sciences Cur‐ riculum Study.  Engström, S. & Carlhed, C. (2014). Different habitus: different strategies in teaching physics?  Relationships between teachers’ social, economic and cultural capital and strategies in teach‐ ing physics in upper secondary school. In Cultural Studies of Science Education , 9 (3), 699– 728.  Fairclough, N. (1989). Language and Power . Harlow: Pearson Education Limited. Modelling the Human Rights Approach to Science Education 77  Faulkner, W. (2006). Genders in / of engineering: a research report . Swindon: ESRC.  Geertz, C. (1973): The interpretation of culture . New Y ork: Basic Books.  Gomolla, M. & Radtke, F.-O. (2009). Institutionelle Diskriminierung. Die Herstellung ethnischer  Differenz in der Schule , Wiesbaden: Springer VS.  Haraway, D. (1988). Situated Knowledges: The Science Question in Feminism and the Priv‐ iledge of Partial Perspective. In Feminist Studies , 14 (3), 575–599.  Harding, S. (1991). Whose Science? Whose Knowledge? Thinking from W omen’s Lives . Cornell  Ithaka: Cornell University Press.  Harding, S. (2006). Science and Social Inequality. Feminist and Postcolonial Issues. Race and  Gender in Science Studies . University of Illinois Press, Urbana and Chicago.  Hossenfelder, M. (2000). Der Wille zum Recht und das Streben nach Glück. Grundlegung einer  Ethik des W ollens und Begründung der Menschenrechte . München: C.H. Beck.  Keller, E. F. (1985). Reflections on Gender and Science . New Haven: Yale University Press.  Kessels, U. & Taconis, R. (2011). Alien or Alike? How the Perceived Similarity Between the  Typical Science T eacher and a Student’s Self-Image Correlates with Choosing Science at  School. In Research in Science Education , 42 (6),1049–1071.  King, D., & Domin, D. (2007). The representation of people of color in undergraduate general  chemistry textbooks. Journal of Chemical Education , 84, 342–345  Kovach, M. E. (2009). Indigenous methodologies: Characteristics, conversations, and contexts .  T oronto: University of T oronto Press.  Latour, B. (1987). Science in action . Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA.  Leiprecht, R. & Lutz, H. (2006). Intersektionalität im Klassenzimmer: Ethnizität, Klasse,  Geschlecht. In R. Leiprecht & A. Kerber (Eds.), Schule in der Einwanderungsgesellschaft,  Politik und Bildung , (pp. 218–234). Schwalbach: W ochenschauverlag.  Lemke, J. (1990). T alking Science: Language, Learning and V alues. Language and Educational  Processes . Ablex Publishing, W estport.  Lemke, J. L. (2001). Articulating communities: Sociocultural perspectives on science education.  Journal of Research in Science T eaching , 38 (3), 296–316.  Lemke, J. (2011). The secret identity of science education: masculine and politically conserva‐ tive? Cultural Studies of Science Education , 6, 287–292.  Pienta, R. S. & Smith, A. M. (2012). W omen on the Margins: The Politics of Gender in the  Language and Content of Science T extbooks. In H. Hickman, H. & P. J. Porfilio (Eds.), The  New Politics of the T extbook: Problematizing the Portrayal of Marginalized Groups in T extbooks   (pp. 33–48), Rotterdam: Sense Publisher.  Said, E. (1978). Orientalism . Vintage, New Y ork.  Schiebinger, L. (1995). Nature’s Body: Gender in the Making of Modern Science. Journal of the  History of Biology,  28 (2), 369–371.  Schiebinger, L. (2003). The philosopher’s beard: W omen and gender in science. In R. Porter  (Ed.), Eighteenth-century science  (pp. 184–210). Cambridge Univ. Press, Cambridge.  SSHRC (2019). Indigenous Research Statement of Principles.  Social Sciences and Humanities  Research Council. Government of Canada. URL: https://www. sshrccrsh. gc. ca/ aboutau_  sujet/ policiespolitiques/ statementsenonces/ indigenous_ researchrecherche_ autochtone eng. aspx [accessed 30 June 2021]  SSHRC (2021). Best Practices in Equity, Diversity and Inclusion in Research. Social Sciences and  Humanities Research Council . Government of Canada. URL: https://www. sshrccrsh. gc. ca/  fundingfinancement/ nfrffnfr/ edieng.aspx [accessed 24 July 2021] 78 Tanja Tajmel  Smith, L.T. (2012). Decolonizing Methodologies. Research and Indigenous Peoples . 2nd ed.  London: Zed books.  Spivak, G. C. (1994). Can the Subaltern Speak? In P. Williams & L. Chrisman (Eds.), Colonial  Discourse and Post-Colonial Theory . Hemel Hemstead: Harvester Wheatsheaf.  Sunar, S. (2011). Analysis of Science T extbookds for A-Levels in the UK: Issues of Gender Rep‐ resentations. In C. Bruguiere, A. Tiberghien & P. Clement (Eds.), ESERA 2011 . European  Science Education Research Association.  Tajmel, T. (2009). Does Migration Background Matter? Preparing T eachers for Cultural and  Linguistic Diversity in the Science Classroom. In T. Tajmel & K. Starl (Eds.), Science Ed‐ ucation Unlimited. Approaches to Equal Opportunities in Learning Science  (pp. 201–214).  Münster / New Y ork: W axmann.  Tajmel, T. (2011). W ortschatzarbeit im mathematisch-naturwissenschaftlichen Unterricht. In  “W ort.Schatz”, ide. informationen zur deutschdidaktik , Bd. 1. Studienverlag, Innsbruck.  Tajmel, T. (2017). Naturwissenschaftliche Bildung in der Migrationsgesellschaft – Grundzüge  einer Reflexiven Physikdidaktik und kritisch-sprachbewussten Praxis . Wiesbaden / New Y ork:  Springer VS.  Tajmel, T. & Starl, K. (Eds.) (2009). Science education unlimited. Equal opportunities in learning  science . Münster / New Y ork: W axmann.  T omaševski, K. (2001). Human rights obligations: making education available, accessible, accept‐ able and adaptable . URL: http : / / www . right – to – education . org / sites / right – to –  education . org / files / resource – attachments / T omasevski_ Primer% 203.pdf.  UN General Assembly (2007). United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples :  resolution, adopted by the General Assembly, 2 October 2007, A/RES/61/295, available at:  https://www. refworld. org/ docid/ 471355a82. html [accessed 30 June 2021]  van Dijk, T. A. (2001). Critical discourse analysis. In D. Schiffrin, D., Tannen, D. & Hamilton,  H. E. (Eds.), The handbook of discourse analysis  (pp 352–371). Oxford, UK: Blackwell  W ajcman, J. (2010). Feminist theories of technology. Cambridge Journal of Economics  34(1),  143–152.  Willems, K. (2007). Schulische Fachkulturen und Geschlecht. Physik und Deutsch – natürliche  Gegenpole?  Theorie Bilden. transcript Verlag, Bielefeld.  Winker, G. & Degele, N. (2009). Intersektionalität. Zur Analyse sozialer Ungleichheit . Bielefeld:  transcript Verlag.  Winker, G. & Degele, N. (2011). Intersectionality as multi-level analysis: dealing with social  inequality. European Journal of W omen’s Studies  18(1), 51–66.  Zanon, T., Mendes, M., Jasmin, A., Ghiasi, G. & Tajmel, T. (2021). Who gets the picture?  Diversity in Canadian Science T extbooks. Physics in Canada , in press.  Zanoni, P. & Janssens, M. (2004). Deconstructing difference: The rhetoric of human resource  managers’ diversity discourses. Organization Studies , 25, 55–74.  Zanoni, P., Janssens, M., Benschop, Y. & Nkomo, S. (2009). Guest Editorial: Unpacking Diver‐ sity, Grasping Inequality: Rethinking Difference Through Critical Perspectives. Organiza‐ tion , 17 (9), 9–29. Part II  Science/STEM EducationPISA and the Politics of Science Education  Svein Sjøberg  1. Introduction 1.1 Background International large-scale studies of educational achievement (ILSAs) have a long history.  The International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IEA)  was established already in 1958, “when a group of scholars, educational psychologists,  sociologists, and psychometricians met at the UNESCO Institute for Education in Ham‐ burg, Germany, to discuss problems of school and student evaluation” (IEA, 2018).  Science and mathematics were, from the beginning, the key subjects for studies  organized by the IEA. Based on feasibility studies in the 1960s, more focused studies  were undertaken in the following decades: the First International Science Study (FISS)  in the 1970s and the Second International Science Study (SISS) in the mid-1980s. In  mathematics, there was a similar development with the FIMS and SIMS studies.  A major change in the IEA studies came in 1995, when science and mathematics were  combined in the same study, the Third International Mathematics and Science Study  (TIMSS). The acronym TIMSS was maintained for studies that followed, where the  “T” now stands for “trends.” As the name also suggests, the TIMSS studies are designed  to measure trends in student achievement over time. Results from the TIMSS usually  receive wide attention in the media, and they have, over the decades, been used as inputs  to educational decision-making and policy in many of the participating countries.  Data from the TIMSS studies have also been extensively used by the OECD (Or‐ ganisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) in their influential policy  documents and reports, but in the late 1990s the OECD started to plan for their own  study, organized on behalf of the governments of member states, the wealthiest industrial  countries. PISA was launched in 2000, and since then we have had two large and costly  “competing” international studies of student achievement in science and mathematics.  Over the years since then, PISA has by far become the largest and most influential  study. Some 75 countries took part in PISA 2018, and about 90 countries are expected  to take part in PISA 2021. (T esting is postponed to 2022 due to the Covid-19 pan‐ demic).  1.2 Introducing PISA: The Gold Standard The first PISA testing took place early in 2000, with results published in December 2001.  Since then, PISA results have gradually become a kind of global “gold standard” for 82 Svein Sjøberg  educational quality. As proudly stated by PISA director Andreas Schleicher (2013) in  a well-visited TED talk: “PISA is really a story of how international comparisons have  globalized the field of education that we usually treat as an affair of domestic policy.”  Although the political and educational importance of PISA varies from one country  to another, the results often set the scene for public debates on the quality of education.  PISA league tables are widely published in mass media and are also used by politicians and  educational authorities. In many countries, educational reforms are launched as direct  responses to the PISA results (Breakspear, 2012).  The PISA testing takes place every three years, and the three core subjects (reading,  science and mathematics) are rotated. Science was the core subject in 2006 and 2015. Re‐ sults from PISA 2018 testing were published in December 2019 (OECD, 2019b, 2019c,  2019d), so we now have data from seven rounds of PISA, and new rounds are already  under preparation for every third year up to 2033. Calls for tender and documents for  bidders are issued many years upfront. Reading, mathematics, and science are still to  remain the core subjects, with financial literacy as an option.  The PISA core subject receives much more testing time (60 % ) than the two other  subjects (20 % each). The core subject also addresses subject-specific questions in a  student questionnaire. In each round, PISA includes an optional assessment of an “in‐ novative domain.” These domains have included Learning Strategies (2000), Complex  Problem Solving (2003), Computer-Based Assessment of Science (2006), Electronic  Reading Assessment (2009), Dynamic Problem Solving (2012), Collaborative Problem  Solving (2015), and Global Competencies (2018). For PISA 2021, (to be postponed  to 2022, due to the COVID-19-pandemic) the intention is to have a unit that assesses  Student Creativity (OECD, 2019e). Many countries opt out of these units.  The intentions of PISA relate to the overall aims of the OECD and its commitment  to a competitive global free-market economy. (The E in OECD is for Economy, not for  Education!) PISA was originally intended for the 30+ industrialized and wealthy OECD  countries, but a similar number of developing countries and “economies” have since  joined. When PISA is presented, its importance is stated by claiming that participants  “make up nine tenths of the world economy” (OECD, 2010a, Foreword, p. 3). This is  a most telling way of representing student participation, and it indicates that the focus  of the PISA project is concern for the economy. Because “common sense” suggests that  high student scores on reading, mathematics, and science are assumed to be predictors  for a country’s future economic competitiveness, poor rankings on PISA are expected to  be negative signals for the future of the country.  Given its underlying agenda, size, and importance, PISA has to be understood not  just as a study of student learning but also as a social phenomenon in a wider politi‐ cal, social, and cultural context, and as a normative instrument for educational policy  and governance. PISA rankings have been known to create panic and discomfort in  many countries, including those that score highly (Alexander, 2012). This “PISA-shock”  produces an urgency for politicians and bureaucrats to do “something” to rectify the PISA and the Politics of Science Education 83  situation. But PISA cannot, through its “snapshot” research design, say anything about  cause and effect. Hence creativity in interpretations blooms and educational reforms  that are not empirically founded are introduced, often overnight.  This paper provides a critical account of the PISA project, including its key features,  development, and claims. The first relates to the PISA project per se : some problems are  inherent to the PISA undertaking, and hence cannot be “fixed.” The main point is the  underlying belief that the quality of a nation’s education system can be reduced to and  measured by a single, universal, and global metric – independent of that nation’s history  and culture, let alone the purposes, values, and ideals of the nation and its school system.  Problems also arise when the categories and intentions of the PISA testing framework  (“curriculum”) are translated into concrete test items to be used across a wide variety of  languages, cultures, and countries. The requirement for “fair testing” implies by necessity  that local, current, and topical issues be excluded.  The second criticism relates to the rather intriguing results that emerge from analysis  of PISA data. For example, it seems that pupils in high-scoring countries have the most  negative attitudes toward the subject. The data shows that PISA scores are unrelated to  public spending on education, time spent on the subject, class size, etc. PISA scores are  also negatively related to the use of active teaching methods, inquiry-based instruction,  and the use of ICT.  The final part of the paper looks at how the OECD uses PISA as an instrument  of power in well-planned, media-oriented reports and the release of results. Normative  power is exerted through seemingly neutral and objective numbers, statistics, rankings,  and indicators. In reports and recommendations, they celebrate “successful” examples  of teaching and learning for schools and school systems, suggesting that these should be  copied. “Success” here is defined as high (or increasing) scores on the PISA test, which is  assumed to be an objective overall measure of educational quality.  2. Constructing PISA: Challenges and Problems The PISA project has many of the characteristics of what is called “big science” and  “technoscience”: It involves the cooperation of research groups, external consultants,  commercial providers, as well as policy-makers in around 75 countries. The logistics of  the project are complicated, and there are substantial numbers of project documents  with detailed instructions to be followed by the national groups responsible in each  of the participating countries. Hundreds of experts from several fields of expertise are  involved, subcontractors are awarded following a bidding process, thousands of schools  and teachers are recruited, and nearly half a million students spend 2 ½hours answering  the test and the questionnaire. Data, carefully coded by thousands of specially trained  markers, are then submitted to the organizers to be cleaned, verified, and then through a  complicated process, converted to the scores that are published. 84 Svein Sjøberg  The PISA undertaking is a well-funded international “techno-scientific” enterprise,  undoubtedly the world’s largest and most costly empirical study of schools and educa‐ tion. An analysis of the costs of PISA in the U.S. alone estimates a total cost of about  6.7 million USD per round (Engel & Rutkowski, 2018). Much of this amount goes to  commercial sub-contractors. Some money also goes directly to the individual students  who participate in the study. T eachers and school coordinators are also offered money  to take part. On top of these costs, each state in the U.S. pays to participate (Engel &  Rutkowski, 2018). These practices vary between countries. In some countries, participa‐ tion is obligatory for schools as well as for students.  2.1 OECD and Emergence of PISA The OECD has developed since the end of WW2, originally as a part of the U.S.-driven  Marshall Plan to rebuild the European economy after the war. The member states in‐ cluded 18 countries in W estern Europe. The key aim was to promote and support a free  market, capitalist economic system. An obvious agenda was to provide defense against  communism and influence of the Soviet Union. The present (2021) OECD has 37  member states.  Since the 1960s, the OECD has gradually increased its interest in human resources /  human capital as a key factor in economic development, with emphasis on the training of  a skilled workforce, in particular, technical and scientific personnel. A key person in this  development was Norwegian economist Kjell Eide, who was central in the development  of educational involvement of the OECD in the period from the early 1960s up to the  beginning of the 1990s. Eide (1995) describes the political debates and how various  positions on the role and importance of education competed within the OECD and its  various sub-committees. While some countries argued for the importance of a broadbased curriculum with an emphasis on human development and “Bildung” , others were  oriented toward a more instrumental role of education: the development of a skilled  workforce for the labor market. The notion of “school efficiency” became a contentious  issue in debates within the OECD. Eide writes:  In the 1980s, in particular, the U.S. aggressively put forward more conservative political ideas  on the OECD’s educational agenda: quality in education, free school choice, new modes  of financing, cooperation with industry and commerce, accountability, efficiency in use of  resources, performance pay, etc.  The ambitions may be that the OECD takes responsibility to arrange international tests  and examinations (like TIMSS) on behalf of the governments. [. . . ] If so, this will make  the OECD a strong instrument of power, and will contribute to a harmonization that will  exceed everything that we have feared from the EU. (Eide, 1995, p. 104, author’s translation)  This was written just two years before the planning of PISA commenced. One may argue  that Eide’s fears have fully been realized. In the first report from PISA/OECD, the joint  commitment of the OECD “owners” was clearly stated: PISA and the Politics of Science Education 85  PISA represents a new commitment by the governments of OECD countries to monitor  the outcomes of education systems in terms of student achievement, within a common  framework that is internationally agreed. (OECD, 1999, p. 11)  This report was written a year before the first PISA testing and indicates the intentions  and ambitions of the PISA undertaking. In later reports, the normative nature of PISA  is even more explicit.  The economical mandate of the OECD also explains why the “PISA subjects” are  reading, mathematics, and science. These subjects are seen to be key elements for national  competitiveness in a world economy driven by science and technological development.  The selection of PISA subjects also carries a direct message about what is deemed impor‐ tant in schools and in the development of young people.  PISA is owned and organized by the OECD member states and governed by their  politicians and appointed bureaucrats. The PISA Governing Board is composed of rep‐ resentatives of OECD members, clearly expressed as follows:  Representatives are appointed by their education ministries. [. . . ] The Board determines the  policy priorities for PISA and makes sure that these are respected during the implementation  of each PISA survey. ( http://www. oecd. org/ pisa/ contacts/ pisagoverningboard. htm , visited  December 14, 2020)  OECD’s mandated focus on the preparedness for the global economy distinguishes PISA  from studies like TIMMS, which are organized by the IEA and grow out of academic  communities and their research interests. Although the IEA studies have also enjoyed  political and economic support, they do not have the same direct commitment to po‐ litical or ideological stances. In later years, however, governmental departments are IEA  member institutions and do play a more active role in the policies of the IEA, not only in  the funding of their many projects.  The current normative power of PISA stems from the political and economic status  of the OECD and its ownership by member state governments. When PISA was intro‐ duced by the OECD, it immediately started to influence the education sector, which was  also the purpose of the program.  2.2 Claims, Framework and T est Items What does PISA claim to measure? The official statements about what PISA measures are in many ways confusing, even  contradictory. In some places, PISA declares that they do not measure school knowledge  or competencies acquired at schools; in other places, they state that they actually do  measure the quality of science and mathematics teaching, and indeed the quality of a  nation’s entire school system. 86 Svein Sjøberg  The overall aims of PISA were already stated in 1999, before the first PISA testing  took place in 2000. These are the first words in the presentation of the ideas behind  PISA:  How well are young adults prepared to meet the challenges of the future? Are they able to  analyze, reason, and communicate their ideas effectively? Do they have the capacity to con‐ tinue learning throughout life? Parents, students, the public, and those who run education  systems need to know. (OECD, 1999, p. 11)  These exact words have been repeated in most PISA reports from the OECD over the  years. In other parts of their reports, claims are more modest. They stress that PISA scores  do not actually provide measures of the quality of education systems , but the collective  results  of school, home, and social environments.  PISA is explicit that they do not measure according to national school curricula, but  rather on the assessment framework made by OECD-appointed PISA experts (OECD,  2016a). The PISA T echnical Reports clearly state that the knowledge and skills tested on  PISA “are defined not primarily in terms of a common denominator of national school  curricula but in terms of what skills are deemed to be essential for future life” (OECD,  2009, p. 11).  So, although PISA states that it does not test school knowledge, and that it does not  test according to national curricula or test school knowledge, PISA results are presented  as valid measures of the quality of national school systems.  Constructing PISA: Crucial choices The translation of PISA ambitions to actual tests that students take moves through  several stages, each with serious obstacles where many decisions have to be made. The  first step from the overall intentions behind PISA to actual testing is the selection of  knowledge domains (or school subjects) that should be included. The OECD chooses  three domains (“literacies”) for PISA testing: reading (in mother tongue), mathematics,  and science. These are important and basic subjects, of course, but one should keep in  mind that most domains are not included.  International differences make it impossible for PISA to embrace all possible school  subjects, but by selecting some and ignoring others, they implicitly convey a message to  the public, as well as politicians, about what is important for schools and future life.  When, in 2012, PISA extended its repertoire, the chosen domain was “financial literacy”  (OECD, 2013), a subject that does not exist in schools in the majority of countries. Not  all countries included this option in their PISA testing, and it remains an option.  The PISA framework The next step is to create a testing framework for the chosen domains – in reality, a  “PISA curriculum.” Key external institutions (the successful bidders) and the nominated PISA and the Politics of Science Education 87  subject matter specialists are in charge of a lengthy process to develop this framework.  The persons selected for this purpose are well-known international experts in their fields.  But, of course, they work within the politically established frames decided on by PISA as  a project, and they must all be fluent in English, the language of all deliberations and  working documents. In addition to these subject matter specialists, psychometricians  play a key role in the whole process.  Most educators in science and mathematics will probably find the PISA frameworks  developed by these expert groups to be interesting, with ideas, perspectives, and subject  matter details that are of very high quality (see, for instance OECD, 2016a).  It is, however, noteworthy that the term “human rights” is not mentioned in the 200  page PISA Assessment framework for the three domains that PISA addresses (OECD,  2019a). Noteworthy is also that neither the UN Sustainable Development Goals nor the  related initiatives for Education for Sustainable Development are mentioned. The term  “Human rights” is not mentioned in the framework.  A universal test for “real life” challenges? An underlying, fundamental premise of PISA is that it is possible to measure the quality  of a country’s education by indicators that are universal and independent of school  systems, social structure, traditions, culture, natural conditions, ways of living, modes  of production, etc.  As noted above, PISA claims to measure “how well the young generation is prepared  to meet the challenges of tomorrow’s world.” Such an ambition assumes that the chal‐ lenges of tomorrow’s world are already known and that they are more or less identical for  young people across countries and cultures. Although life in many countries has similar  traits, one can hardly assume that 15-year-olds in, for instance, the USA, Japan, Norway,  T urkey, Mexico, and Brazil face the same challenges and that they need identical and  measurable skills and competencies in their future lives.  One should also keep in mind that the PISA test is meant for young students in the  relatively rich and modernized OECD countries. When this test is used as a benchmark  for educational standards in the 40 non-OECD countries that take part in PISA, the  mismatch becomes even more obvious. In years to come, another version of PISA –  PISA for Development (OECD, 2020b) – will be implemented, targeting developing  countries. Through this move, the OECD also provides their “advice” to developing  countries about what they should teach in schools and how they should organize their  schools and education system.  The ambitions of PISA are high but are contradicted by the very format of the testing.  The PISA test is, like most exams and tests, an artificial situation, where students sit for two  hours to answer written questions, in solitude and without access to sources of information.  How much does this test situation resemble “real life” and relate to the “authentic  challenges” that young people may face in their future life as citizens, as participants 88 Svein Sjøberg  in tomorrow’s democracy, and as members of a skilled workforce? Put this way, these  questions are, of course, rhetorical; the PISA test situation does not resemble any real-life  situations. The only place where you sit in solitude with a written test is in fact in exams at  schools and universities. The PISA test situation is no different from most other tests and  exams. Moreover, since the PISA test is anonymous, results cannot be traced back to the  students, their teachers, or schools. Such tests may also be seen as tests of student loyalty,  obedience, and respect for authority.  PISA item selection and test construction Once the PISA testing framework is constructed, the next step is to “operationalize” it,  that is, to use the framework to develop and select the test items and build the PISA test  as a whole. This complicated process is described in voluminous technical reports (see,  for example OECD, 2009). These reports are often published more than a year after the  release of PISA results, which makes critique and scrutiny by peers difficult (Rutkowski  & Rutkowski, 2016).  The item development process involves the following steps: Each PISA country  (solely the OECD members) is invited to submit test items that fit the framework and  are based on “authentic texts” for “real-life situations.” The final series of test items is  decided through a complicated process with initial screening and selection, national and  international piloting, pre-field trials, a main field trial round, and psychometric analysis,  all of which involve many actors and subcommittees and many meetings for negotiations  and debate.  A logical consequence of wanting to make a fair international test is that an item  cannot be used if it behaves in an “unfair” fashion. While this is a sensible argument from  a statistical, psychometric point of view, it also implies that items that are too close to  real-life contexts in some countries but not others have to be removed. Other principles  for exclusion are described as follows:  The main reasons for assessing units as unsuitable were lack of context, inappropriate con‐ text, cultural bias, curriculum dependence, just school science and including content that  was deemed to be too advanced. (OECD, 2009, p. 34)  Thus, test units (items) that relate to issues that are considered “inappropriate” (contro‐ versial in a particular country), have a “cultural bias” (be it positive or negative), or are  too close to the school curriculum (in some countries but not in others) were excluded.  The statement also explicitly states that items that are “just school science” should be  excluded. This is, again, a clear statement that PISA does not measure school knowledge  or issues related to school curricula. Given the above statement, it seems somewhat  strange that such a test is used to judge the quality of science taught in schools.  In reality, the test items in the final test are decontextualized, or the context is  contrived or historical. The need stems not from intentions expressed in the testing PISA and the Politics of Science Education 89  framework but, rather, from statistical necessity and concern for “fairness.” This runs  contrary to recommendations from educators as well as many national curricula pro‐ moting a curriculum that is relevant, interesting, and context-based, at least for the  compulsory school levels.  2.3 Intriguing Results and Growing Critique – is PISA off T arget? The OECD and its PISA researchers are, of course, well aware that PISA data cannot  establish causality. This is clearly expressed in the Introduction in the summary report  from PISA 2015:  While PISA cannot identify cause-and-effect relationships between policies / practices and  student outcomes, it can show educators, policy makers and the interested public how edu‐ cation systems are similar and different – and what that means for students. (OECD, 2018,  p. 3)  In spite of such assurances, the official results from PISA are presented in a language  that suggests that such causalities exist. Lists of “what works” are based on co-variation  between PISA scores and constructs from, for instance, student questionnaires and data  from the schools’ principals. Many of the problematic “results” presented in this paper  are of this nature. Readers – including national policymakers, school “owners,” princi‐ pals, or teachers – will interpret such results as showing cause and effect. Moreover, from  the vast number of possible relationships between PISA scores and other variables and  constructs, readers may easily find “evidence” to support their own agendas – support,  for example, that class size does not matter, that teacher education does not matter, or  that public money spent on education has no influence on the quality of schools. PISA  scores are also negatively related to the use of active teaching methods, inquiry-based  instruction, and the use of ICT. These findings are further explored by Sjøberg (2019)  and Sjøberg and Jenkins (2020).  Limitations, errors and uncertainties are under-communicated The reported PISA numbers and indicators are, of course, not clearly defined and op‐ erationally objective measurements as in natural sciences like physics. PISA constructs  are imperiled by several sources of error and uncertainties. These are seldom reported  properly, or are only found in footnotes and technical reports. In a comprehensive review  of uncertainties, sampling errors and technical limitations of PISA, Sellar, Thomson &  Rutkowski (2017, p. 53) conclude:  Unfortunately [. . . ] there is a growing amount of evidence that these limitations are not  being clearly and simply communicated to the broader scientific, policy, and practice com‐ munities. More care needs to be taken to ensure that the results are understood as fallible  measures. 90 Svein Sjøberg  In an article in the prestigious Journal Educational Researcher  Rutkowski and Rutkowski  (2016) give several examples of how the PISA project has weaknesses and shortcomings  that are not communicated, and that their conclusions and recommendations are doubt‐ ful. They make a “call for a more measured approach to reporting and interpreting PISA  results” . It falls outside the scope of this paper to go in detail on this most important  limitation of PISA, but it seems fair to say that the criticism of PISA and the way  it is used and abused is widespread among academics concerned about schooling and  education. This critique has increased over time, also because PISA is extending its scope  and influence in several ways.  PISA results and spending on education Right from the first PISA round, the reports produced graphs and indicators that showed  small or negligible correlations between a country’s PISA scores and its spending on  education (OECD, 2001). This finding led to OECD advice that more public spending  on education will not necessarily improve its quality. More concretely, it is interesting  to note that in the five Nordic countries, the relationship between public spending and  PISA scores is actually strongly negative. Finland, for instance, scores highest but is low‐ est in spending. These relationships are used in political debates in various ways: Finnish  teachers have difficulties asking for higher salaries, more funding, or other changes be‐ cause they are already on top in the rankings. Norway, on the other hand, has been much  lower in the PISA ranking, but with higher public spending on schools. Based on PISA,  Norwegian politicians argued that it has been “proven” that more spending would not  increase the quality of schools.  PISA findings on cost and funding, such as the above, are frequently used in influ‐ ential OECD publications, such as the annual Education at a Glance.  This publication  concludes that “averaged across OECD countries, there is potential for reducing inputs  by 30.7 % while maintaining outputs constant” (OECD, 2007, p. 16). That is to say, the  OECD is suggesting that reducing spending on education might not impact its quality.  3. The OECD and PISA Project: Politics and Global Educational  Governance The OECD is not hesitant to claim that PISA has globalized educational policy and lifted  it out of the national sphere (Schleicher, 2013). More concretely, an OECD Education  W orking Paper provides details of the normative effects of PISA. The report states that  PISA has been adopted as an almost global standard, and is now used in over 65 countries  and economies. [. . . ] PISA has become accepted as a reliable instrument for benchmarking  student performance worldwide, and PISA results have had an influence on policy reform in  the majority of participating countries / economies. (Breakspear, 2012) PISA and the Politics of Science Education 91  In this report, the OECD reviews literature as well as results from their own question‐ naires and provides a ranking (!) of the impact that PISA has had on all OECD countries.  The report notes that even “high-performing countries such as Korea and Japan have  enacted reforms in response to a large range of PISA results” (Breakspear, 2012).  As previously noted, international comparative studies of student achievement have  existed for at least 50 years, and they have influenced and informed educational debates  and policies in many countries for decades. But the scene changed dramatically when  the OECD launched PISA. Now (2021), after seven published rounds of PISA test‐ ing, TIMSS and other international achievement studies play a much smaller role in  most countries, although these studies actually measure knowledge that is much closer  to existing school curricula. Much of the power of PISA resides in its “ownership” by  the OECD, an organization that is owned and directed by its member states’ govern‐ ments.  3.1 Competition, Market Thinking, and Globalization The PISA project should be seen as part of a wider international policy trend where  concepts and ideas from the market economy are used in the education sector. Key  words here are competition, success, market, and globalization. They are visible in many  sectors of society, including education. These concepts are part and parcel of the freemarket, capitalist economic system and its underlying beliefs. A most visible aspect of  PISA is its focus on league tables and numerical scores. This creates competition where  there are winners and losers. The countries at the top are celebrated as “successful,”  and PISA reports hold them up as winners and models. Everything seems to center on  having success: PISA reports celebrate successful systems, successful schools, successful  reformers, successful learners (OECD, 2010a, 2015b, & 2016c). The underlying belief  is that competition in a market always generates quality and leads to success. And the  purpose and meaning of life is to have success and to be competitive.  The term “New Public Management” is used to describe a market-driven system  that is supposed to make the public sector more efficient. T erms like quality, efficiency,  transparency, accountability, productivity, and “value for money” are among the (often  positively laden) terms that are used in these policy reforms in many public sectors.  Public services like schools and higher education, culture, health, and care have been  invaded by these market terms. Other (previously) public sectors – health, police, secu‐ rity, postal services, transport, water supply, handling of household garbage, sewage and  wastewater treatment, etc. – have experienced the same trend: T raditional public services  are increasingly subjected to competitive bids where they compete with private actors.  Outsourcing of key public services is an international trend, and bids are often taken over  by multinational companies, a process that is eased by new regulations on international  trade. This trend towards marketization and privatization characterizes the development  in several countries as part of a pervasive wave of neoliberal reforms (Münch, 2020). In 92 Svein Sjøberg  this development, the education sector is at the forefront, with the OECD as actor and  the PISA project as an efficient tool (Meyer & Benavot, 2013).  A related political / economic perspective is that of globalization. The economy has  become globalized and large multinational companies have increased their influence.  This demands a workforce that is flexible and mobile. Hence, there is a need for com‐ mon standards in education, common systems for exams, degrees, and qualifications.  Such tendencies operate within units like the European Union, where an example is  the “Bologna process” and its introduction of a common degree system and standard‐ ized ways of describing courses and competencies in higher education. In key areas, the  OECD is playing an increasingly important role by developing and monitoring common  standards, indicators, and measures (Grek, 2009).  This PISA-fueled process represents a political pressure to standardize, harmonize,  and universalize national institutions – including countries’ school systems – and to  promote competition on the global educational scene (Ball, 2012). While most educators  argue for context-based science teaching and localized curricula, at least in the obligatory  school years, the pressure from PISA is in the opposite direction. A driving force behind  these reforms is often the use of indicators – quantifiable and measurable standards that  can be used for calculations (Popkewitch, 2011). PISA test scores and rankings are ideal  for this purpose.  Human Capital Theory: T est scores and economic prosperity The importance of human resources as prime drivers in the modern economy was the  main reason for the OECD to focus more on education. The theoretical underpinning  of this is often referred to as Human Capital Theory. The competencies of the workforce  in the contemporary economy are considered even more important than other forms of  capital, such as machinery, buildings, and infrastructure. Hence, the efficient develop‐ ment of a productive workforce becomes a key concern for development of the economy.  From this perspective, money spent on education is not only for individual growth but an  investment that will pay off in the future of the country’s economy and competitiveness.  T oday, it therefore seems “common sense” that high scores on science and mathemat‐ ics tests at school are good predictors of future economic prosperity. Poor rankings on  PISA are presented as negative signals for the future of the country. This postulation is  probably the main reason for the extreme importance given to PISA results and rankings.  PISA is, in fact, also “sold,” presented, and understood from this perspective.  It falls outside the scope of this paper to go in detail, but only to mention that the  “common-sense” relationship between student test scores and future economic prosper‐ ity has been forcefully rejected by scholars from widely different academic fields. See, for  instance, Komatsu & Rappleye (2017) and Rappleye & Komatsu (2019). PISA and the Politics of Science Education 93  PISA and the market As indicated earlier, PISA is a most complicated project, involving thousands of people.  Most of the work is done by sub-contractors, at the central as well as the national level.  Some of the contractors are commercial providers. The most important has been Pear‐ son, the world’s largest company for testing and education programs, with more than  22 500 employees operating in 70 countries. Presently (2021), 80 percent of Pearson’s  revenues come from education, maybe the world’s fastest growing market sector. Pearson  won the bid for important parts of the PISA 2015 testing and developed strong ties with  the OECD. In PISA 2018, Pearson even increased its grip on PISA. A joint press release  from the OECD and Pearson proudly announced that  Pearson has won a competitive tender by the OECD to develop the Frameworks for PISA  2018. [. . . ] The frameworks define what will be measured in PISA 2018, how this will be re‐ ported and which approach will be chosen for the development of tests and questionnaires.  ( Joint Press release PISA/OECD and Pearson, Dec 10th, 2014)  This key role in PISA does not, of course, imply that Pearson’s staff is doing the work.  But they do organize and administer the process. Pearson continues to forge personal  ties with countless academics in key positions and numerous representatives of national  educational authorities. For PISA 2021,  Pearson, in collaboration with the Oxford University Centre for Educational Assessment  (OUCEA), has been awarded the PISA 2021 contract [. . . ] to operate as the National  Centre for England, W ales and Northern Ireland. ( http://www. education. ox. ac. uk/ oucea/  ourresearch/ programmeforinternationalstudentassessmentpisa2021/ accessed De‐ cember 14, 2020)  The market for educational services and contracts is huge, since all countries use a sub‐ stantial amount of national spending for schools and education. Commercial, private,  and for-profit providers take an increasing slice of this cake. “Edu-business” has become  a blooming global market, often fueled by the results of the large-scale international  studies, in particular PISA. The W orld Yearbook of Education  in 2016 had The Global  Education Industry  as its main topic (Verger, Lubienski & Steiner-Khamsi, 2016). Large  portions of what used to be public services are subcontracted to commercial providers,  often in close cooperation with academic insitutions . It falls outside the scope of this  paper to elaborate on this most important issue.  PISA: Redefining the purpose of schooling The most fundamental and serious influence of PISA is that it redefines the very purpose  of schooling and education. PISA claims to measure skills and competencies that are  important for the future economy and employability. It thereby ignores that schools  serve the much broader purpose of contributing to the personal, human, and social 94 Svein Sjøberg  development of the child, with an overall aim to help them become well-informed and  well-functioning individuals and citizens. In each country, compulsory schooling is the  key socializing agent. The school provides the induction to the nation’s culture, values,  history, and norms, and the school is a place where the developing child is exposed to a  broad variety of disciplines and ways of thinking and acting.  PISA appears to assume that this complex set of purposes of the school can be reduced  to one common, standardized, and measurable metric – independent of country, culture,  and context. It is this postulate that gives rise to the most basic objection to the whole  PISA undertaking. PISA reduces the purpose of schooling to be what can be measured  on a single dimension in a single test at a particular time from a sample of 15-year-olds in  school. This number, in the form of the PISA score, is presented as – and too often taken  to be – a neutral and objective measure of quality and efficiency of the whole education  system.  The fundamental debates about the meaning and purpose of schools and education  are replaced with a reference to numbers and test scores. Philosophical, ethical, and  cultural debates are silenced and replaced with a simplistic, technocratic number game  and an interest in “what works.” Statistics, rankings, and numbers replace reflection,  debate, and politics. T erms like Human Rights are irrelevant in such a discourse, and they  do not appear in PISA frameworks or other documents.  3.2 Governance by “Soft Power”: Numbers, Rankings, and Comparisons Neither PISA nor its “owner,” the OECD, has any formal, legal power. They exert  influence by what is often labeled “soft power” (Bieber & Martens, 2011; Pons, 2017):  setting the agenda, naming the challenges, defining the indicators, publishing statistics,  and providing expert advice through different sorts of reviews and country reports.  A key role is played through the provision of statistics. Over the years, the OECD has  become a key global provider of statistics, not only for its key concern, the economy,  but also in the education sector. The OECD statistics are increasingly used by other  global actors, including the European Union, the W orld Bank, and, increasingly, UN  organizations like UNESCO.  Good and reliable statistics are, of course, important. But statistics and indicators do  not just describe reality; they construct and shape reality. What one chooses to measure  also defines what is seen as important. All indicators build on underlying assumptions  and value-based priorities that are often forgotten when league tables are constructed  and presented.  Breakspear (2014) makes the same point clear in a report with the telling title How  does PISA shape education policy making? Why how we measure learning determines what  counts in education .  PISA results create competition, not only between countries but also between states,  territories, and districts within one country (e.g., Canada, Australia, Germany, U. S. A.). PISA and the Politics of Science Education 95  Some researchers describe PISA as “a global educational race” (Sellar, Thompson, &  Rutkowski, 2017; Sjøberg, 2016).  PISA reporting: targeting the media and policy makers The educational governance by PISA has many facets. The great institutional authority  of the OECD is mentioned. This authority is strongly exercised when new results of  PISA are released in early December every third year. W ell-attended and coordinated  press conferences are arranged in all participating countries. The press is provided with  well-prepared briefs, and the international and national reports are released. Then there  is the wait to hear that “the winner is. . . ” and that “research shows . . . ”  These PISA reports are not regular peer-reviewed publications written for an academic  audience; they are directly addressed to the media and policymakers. These products are  glossy and colorful, well written, with simple messages, conclusions, and recommendations.  Presentation videos and interactive data animations are also made available. The invita‐ tions to the press briefings and the release of reports send a clear message: PISA results  should be seen as indicators for the future the of the country’s economic competitiveness.  For example, when PISA 2006 was released in the U.S., the invitation had the heading,  “Losing Our Edge: Are American Students Unprepared for the Global Economy?” The  text states that “[t]he lessons learned from PISA results [. . . ] can, and should, be used to  inform U.S. education policy so that our students graduate . . . ready to compete, thrive,  and lead in the global economy of the twenty-first century” (Alliance, 2006). Similar  wordings are regularly used at PISA launches in other countries.  In the 3-year period between the releases of new PISA results, a series of “policy  briefs” are released, thereby maintaining the pressure through media coverage. Many  of these “user-friendly” media-oriented products are made in close cooperation with  commercial providers. As of December 2020, 110 such policy briefs had been published  (OECD, 2020c).  As exemplified above, the so-called PISA shock is not “created by the media,” as often  claimed, but is created by the OECD itself at the PISA release and through subsequent  policy briefs and reports, often adapted to the national context. In most countries, the  PISA researchers depend on continued funding from the government. They have a vested  interest in maintaining close contact with political levels. The national PISA teams have  an objective interest in having good relations with their respective ministries of educa‐ tion. They seldom react in public if politicians abuse or misinterpret PISA results to serve  their own interests.  For young researchers, hoping to make a career and secure funding, it may not be a  good idea to be too critical toward the funding agencies for research, in particular those  under strong political control.  The modes of marketing of PISA create and maintain an atmosphere of urgency in  many countries. This also provides a “window of opportunity” for reforms: a perceived 96 Svein Sjøberg  crisis provides the need “to do something.” But since PISA cannot, by design, explain  either success or failure, the “crisis” opens opportunities for all sorts of reforms being  legitimized by PISA results.  Expanding and extending PISA From the viewpoint of the OECD, PISA has been a remarkable success. By providing  rankings, data, and indicators based on its data, the OECD sets the scene for discussions  about quality of schooling and entire school systems. And in most countries, politicians  and policy-makers follow suit. Given this success, it is easy to understand that the OECD  is also broadening its scope within, and influence on, the education sector with other  “PISA-like” studies with focuses ranging from kindergarten to adult life, from the na‐ tional level to school level, and from highly-developed OECD countries to developing  countries.  Over the last decades, the OECD has become the prime provider of high-quality data,  statistics, and indicators to describe and understand what is going on in education worldwide. Given the authority of the OECD and the power of numbers and statistics, this can  also be seen as the power to define the purpose of education and set the political agenda.  4. Summary and Conclusions The PISA project has led to increased interest in and concern for education and the  competencies that young people need to develop to achieve the different “literacies”  needed for their future lives as well as the wellbeing of their societies. The data generated  by successive rounds of PISA is remarkable, and is most likely the largest and most  professional data source in the history of social science and education. These data are also  well documented and are open for potentially interesting research, but the limitations,  errors and uncertainties in the data are not evident for the possible user.  International comparisons in education are important; they can open up new per‐ spectives, and they can provide inspiration and ideas for educators, researchers, and  policymakers. However, international comparisons have a Janus face: they can be un‐ derstood and used in two contrary ways. On one hand, such studies may be eye-openers  to acknowledge and celebrate the great variety among youth, nations, and cultures on  aspects of education, and as such serve as sources of inspiration. On the other hand, such  studies can also be used normatively, providing pressure to oblige and fit to allegedly  universal and common standards set from the authority of external specialists. W e ex‐ perience what is seen as a prime example of New Public Management as well as a kind of  global governance and standardization of education, as also noted by a range of experts  (Ball, 2012; Rinne, 2008). The Finnish educator Pasi Sahlberg (2011) characterizes the  current PISA-driven educational reforms by the acronym GERM: Global Educational PISA and the Politics of Science Education 97  Reform Movement, characterized by privatization, market driven neoliberal reforms,  free school choice, competition, and test-driven accountability.  The official aims of PISA, as cited earlier in this paper, can easily be endorsed. No one  disagrees with the need to ensure that young people develop the knowledge, skills, and  competencies needed to face the challenges as citizens of the future. But the underlying  economic and political rationale behind the OECD’s PISA project is often ignored  or under-communicated. Even researchers in the PISA project seem not to realize (or  accept) the overall political / economic aspects of the project. Many national reports do  not quote the key statements that describe the normative intentions of PISA. Maybe they  feel embarrassed by the bold claims being made?  The inherent difficulties in measuring what PISA asserts to measure are seldom  realized. The road from the noble intentions to actual test instruments and published  data is long and murky. In this paper, I have pointed to some of the problematic issues  in this process, including the selection of subjects (at the expense of other subjects).  Fundamental problems are also inherent in the development of an international, fair test,  which by necessity demands context-free items. Further complications arise when items  are translated to other languages. In this paper and elsewhere (Sjøberg, 2007, 2020), I  argue that it is not just problematic to live up to the intentions laid down in the overall  statements of PISA. I argue that it is in fact a “mission impossible.” The public, media,  and policy makers, however, often take the PISA scores and rankings as given facts. They  trust that the experts know what they are doing, and that the numbers are objective and  neutral measures. They trust, too, that PISA scores are valid measures of the total quality  of their education systems.  No test is better than the items it consists of. Y et the secrecy surrounding develop‐ ment of most PISA items makes critique and scrutiny from the academic community  and the public difficult. Many of the published PISA items have met serious critique,  both for the content and for the language and relevance. T ranslations into many different  languages have only to a limited degree been examined, but it is easy to find flaws and even  substantive changes and mistranslations. More research is needed here.  The problematic and relatively opaque use of statistics receives considerable critique.  Suffice it to note that the statistical procedures leading from individual test scores to  the published population parameters, such as PISA mean scores, have been seriously  challenged. Kreiner and Christensen (2014) write that their findings “do not support the  claims that the country rankings reported by PISA are robust.” In the analysis of the PISA  2015 data, the procedures were changed, in part to address this criticism. This caused the  resulting PISA scores of some countries to change dramatically, much more than deemed  educationally possible over a three-year period. The details of these discussions are only  for specialists in psychometry, and not for a paper like this. But it indicates the danger of  accepting PISA scores as simply given and unproblematic.  There seems to be little attention to the fact that many of the results of PISA are  at odds with what educators recommend as well as with what politicians propose as 98 Svein Sjøberg  medicine to improve the quality of schools. Many politicians want their nations to catch  up with the PISA winners, but to do so they often prescribe measures opposite to what  these winners actually do. Moreover, the PISA winners are actually doing very different  things, so this provides policy-makers the opportunities to choose examples that fit their  own priorities. (Should we copy Singapore or Finland?) There is a need to seriously  address these paradoxical results.  PISA has a profound influence on educational policy in many countries, and this is in‐ deed the clearly stated intention behind the project. It is clear, however, that PISA results  are used selectively, misused, and even distorted for political purposes in many countries.  The reference to PISA to justify and legitimize educational reforms is widespread. This  influence ought to be better researched and scrutinized. PISA is, in essence, a political  project, a perspective that often falls outside the agenda of the educational research  community.  Large resources are used to run the PISA project and to produce their reports and  publications, but critical research is scarce and not well funded. A key aspect of the  academic ethos is to provide a critical voice and to question and challenge conventional  wisdom. Given the great political and educational importance of PISA, there is a strong  need for critical and independent research.  This brings me to a most important concern: critique of PISA may be risky business.  The research communities in many countries are currently under pressure to secure  funding and support for their activities. When positions are advertised, a track record  of earning external money is important, often among the criteria for a successful appli‐ cation. The funding for free critical research is limited and often under pressure. More  funding is available for contracted and commissioned research, from governmental and  ministerial sources as well as from private interests. Academic freedom and the basic  ethos of science and research are under increasing pressure. Many universities and their  departments are run like companies, and the bottom line on the budget trumps academic  ideals. Large contracts depend on winning tenders and bids. In such an atmosphere,  the leaders and staff often exercise a form of self-censorship, not wanting to upset or  criticize the interests that sit on the funding. The ILSAs (International Large-Scale  Assessments) – and PISA in particular – provide solid funding for many academic in‐ stitutions. Hence, it becomes important to keep a close relationship with the funding  agencies, in this case the governments and the ministries of education and research.  It is important that people (including researchers and teachers unions) who are criti‐ cal and skeptical toward PISA have thorough knowledge about the project and the other  PISA-like studies mentioned in this paper. Data never talk directly and “for themselves”  but needs to be selected and put together to produce an argument in support of a stance.  Given the enormous amount and variety of data from PISA, “evidence-based” stories can  be constructed for any point one wants to make.  Finally, in a book like this, we should notice that neither the UN Sustainable Devel‐ opment Goals nor the concern for Human Rights seem to be important for the PISA PISA and the Politics of Science Education 99  undertaking. PISA winners and successful education system are celebrated without any  concerns for the situation for democratic governance or human rights in their schools or  in the wider society.  References Alexander, R. (2012). Moral Panic, Miracle Cures and Educational Policy: what can we really  learn from international comparison ? Scottish Educational Review  44 (1), 4–21.  Alliance (2006). Joint Statement: National Groups Co-Host Briefing On 2006 PISA Results .  W ashington: alliance for Excellent Education. Retrieved from https://all4ed. org/ wpcon‐ tent/ uploads/ 2013/ 09/ JointStatement_ 2006PISA. pdf  Ball, S.J. (2012). Global education Inc: New policy networks and the neo-liberal imaginary.  Lon‐ don: Routledge.  Bieber, T., & Martens, K. (2011). The OECD PISA study as a soft power in education? Lessons  from Switzerland and the US. European Journal of Education , 46, 101–116.  Breakspear, S. (2012). The Policy Impact of PISA: An Exploration of the Normative Effects  of International Benchmarking in School System Performance, OECD Education W orking  Papers, No. 71 , OECD Publishing. http://dx. doi. org/ 10. 1787/ 5k9fdfqffr28en  Breakspear, S. (2014). How does PISA shape education policy making? Why how we measure  learning determines what counts in education.  Centre for Strategic Education. Retrieved from  http://simonbreakspear. com/ wpcontent/ uploads/ 2015/ 09/ BreakspearPISAPaper. pdf  Eide, K. (1995). OECD og norsk utdanningspolitikk. En studie av internasjonalt samspill, (OECD  and Norwegian education policy. A study of international interaction).  Oslo: NAVFs Utred‐ ningsinstitutt.  Engel, L. C., & Rutkowski, D. (2018). Pay to play: what does PISA participation cost in the US?  Discourse: Studies in the Cultural Politics of Education,  DOI: 10.1080/01596306.2018.1503591  Grek, S. (2009). Governing by numbers: the PISA ‘effect’ in Europe. Journal of Education Policy ,  24:1, 23–37 .  IEA (2018). Sixty Y ears of IEA – (1958–2018). IEA, Amsterdam https://indd. adobe. com/  view/ da338b4a5e60492eb3252b8c8f88cf42  Komatsu, H. & Rappleye, J. (2017). A new global policy regime founded on invalid statistics?  Hanushek, W oessmann, PISA, and economic growth, Comparative Education , 53:2, 166– 191, DOI: 10.1080/03050068.2017.1300008  Kreiner S. & Christensen K.B. (2014). Analyses of model fit and robustness. A new look at the  PISA scaling model underlying ranking of countries according to reading literacy. Psychome‐ trika.  2014 Apr; 79(2), 210–31. DOI: 10.1007/s11336-013-9347-z  Meyer, H.D. & Benavot, A. (Eds). (2013). PISA, Power and Policy: the emergence of global  educational governance , Oxford: Symposium Books.  Münch, R. (2020). Governing the School under Three Decades of Neoliberal Reform. From Edu‐ cracy to the Education-Industrial Complex.  New Y ork: Routledge Research in Education Pol‐ icy and Politics  OECD (1999 ). Measuring Student Knowedge and skills. A New Framework for Assessment.  Paris:  OECD Publications.  OECD (2001). Knowedge and skills for life. First results from PISA 2000 . Paris: OECD Publica‐ tions. 100 Svein Sjøberg  OECD (2009). PISA 2006 T echnical Report . Paris: OECD Publications.  OECD (2010a). PISA 2009 Results: What Makes a School Successful? Resources, Policies and  Practices , Vol. 4. Paris: OECD Publications.  OECD (2013). PISA 2012 Assessment and Analytical Framework: Mathematics, Reading, Sci‐ ence, Problem Solving and Financial Literacy.  Paris: OECD Publishing.  OECD (2015b). OECD’s video PISA – Measuring student success around the world. Available  at: http://www. oecd. org/ pisa/ aboutpisa . accessed May 10th 2020  OECD (2016a). PISA 2015 Assessment and Analytical Framework: Science, Reading, Mathe‐ matic and Financial Literacy . Paris: OECD Publishing.  OECD (2016c). PISA 2015 Results (V olume II): Policies and Practices for Successful Schools.  Paris:  OECD Publishing.  OECD (2019a). PISA 2018 Assessment and Analytical Framework.  Paris: OECD Publishing.  OECD (2019b). PISA 2018 Results. What Students Know and Can Do (V olume I).  Paris: OECD  Publishing.  OECD (2019c). PISA 2018 Results. Where All Students Can Succeed (V olume II).  Paris: OECD  Publishing.  OECD (2019d). PISA 2018 Results. What School Life Means for Students’ Lives (V olume III).   Paris: OECD Publishing.  OECD (2019e). Framework for the Assessment of Creative Thinking in PISA 2021: Third  Draft.  Retrieved from https://www. oecd. org/ pisa/ publications/ PISA2021creativethink‐ ingframework. pdf  OECD (2020b). PISA for Development. Policy Briefs . Paris: OECD. Retrieved from http:// www . oecd . org / pisa / aboutpisa / pisafordevelopment documentation briefs . htm accessed  12. April 2020  OECD (2020c). PISA in Focus. Policy Briefs.  Paris: OECD http://dx. doi. org/ 10. 1787/  22260919 accessed 13. December 2020.  Pons, X. (2017). Fifteen years of research on PISA effects on education governance: A critical  review. Eur J Educ.  2017, 52, 131–144. https://doi. org/ 10. 1111/ ejed. 12213  Popkewitz, T. (2011). PISA: Numbers, Standardizing Conduct, and the Alchemy of School  Subjects. In Pereyra, M.A., Kotthoff, H.G. & Cowen, R. (Eds.) PISA Under Examination.  Changing Knowledge, Changing T ests, and Changing Schools.  Rotterdam: Sense.  Rappleye, J. & Komatsu, H. (2019): Is knowledge capital theory degenerate? PIAAC, PISA, and  economic growth, Compare: A Journal of Comparative and International Education,  DOI:  10.1080/03057925.2019.1612233  Rinne, R. (2008) The growing supranational impacts of the OECD and the EU on national  education policies and the case of Finland, Policy Futures in Education , 6, 665–680  Rutkowski, L. & Rutkowski, D. (2016). A call for a more measured approach to reporting and  interpreting PISA results. Educational Researcher , 45(4), 252–257. https://doi. org/ 10. 3102/  0013189X16649961  Sahlberg, P. (2011) Finnish Lessons: what can the world learn from educational change in Finland?   New Y ork: T eachers College  Schleicher, A. (2013). Use data to build better schools. TEDGlobal. Retrieved from http://www.  ted. com/ talks/ andreas_ schleicher_ use_ data_ to_ build_ better_ schools? language= en   Sellar, S., Thompson, G. & Rutkowski, D. (2017). The global education race: taking the measure  of PISA and international testing.  Brush Education Inc. PISA and the Politics of Science Education 101  Sjøberg, S. (2007). PISA and “Real Life Challenges”: Mission Impossible? In Hopmann, S.T.,  Brinek, G. & Retzl, M. (Eds.) (2007) PISA zufolge PISA – PISA According to PISA,  Berlin:  LIT Verlag.  Sjøberg, S. (2016). OECD, PISA, and Globalization. The Influence of the International As‐ sessment Regime. In Tienken, C. H. & Mullen, C. A. (Eds). (2016). Education Policy Perils.  T ackling the T ough Issues  (pp. 102–133). New Y ork: Routledge.  Sjøberg, S. (2019). The PISA-syndrome – How the OECD has hijacked the way we perceive  pupils, schools and education. Confero: Essays on Education, Philosophy and Politics , Vol. 7  no. 1 2019. pp. 34–88 doi: 10.3384/confero.2001-4562.190125  Sjøberg, S. Jenkins, E. (2020). PISA: a political project and a research agenda. Studies in Science  Education  DOI: 10.1080/03057267.2020.1824473  Verger, A., Lubienski, C. & Steiner-Khamsi, G. (Eds.) (2016). W orld Yearbook of Education  2016: The Global Education Industry.  New Y ork: Routledge. STEM Curriculum Development: The Case of Turkey  Seval Fer  1. Introduction With a discipline-integrated and student-centered approach, STEM education supports  and presents an inter-disciplinary approach to teaching and learning. STEM education  promotes active, collaborative, and effective learning via interdisciplinary work and ap‐ plied activities.  The main aim of STEM education in T urkey is to increase the interest and knowledge  of students in STEM. Thus, the major challenges in implementing STEM education in  schools include the integration of knowledge and the application of science, technology,  engineering, and mathematics in various situations and learning environments, especially  as activities in schools. On the other hand, although the Ministry of National Education,  universities, and other institutions are interested in improving STEM education, more is  needed to develop such efforts as indicated in this chapter.  This chapter begins by addressing the question of what STEM education tells us.  Then, the connection between the STEM curriculum and instructional design is ex‐ plained. In addition to STEM studies in the Ministry of Education in T urkey, STEM  centers and laboratories at universities are also covered. The chapter concludes with some  research findings from T urkey regarding STEM.  2. What Does STEM Education T ell Us? Is STEM simply a trendy word or does it reflect a real need? W e need to ask such ques‐ tions because STEM education has been the center of attention lately. W e also observe  that the concept is widely used in academic, school, and non-school environments. So,  whether the concept is a popular trend or has emerged from real need is an important  issue to consider; therefore, it may be appropriate to start this section of the book by  examining what STEM education is.  The STEM acronym was introduced in 2001 by science executives at the US National  Science Foundation (NSF). The organization used the abbreviation SMET to refer to  career areas in these disciplines or curricula that integrate knowledge and skills in these  areas. But in 2001, American biologist Judith Ramaley rearranged the words to form  the STEM acronym (see Hallinen, 2020). T oday, STEM, formed from the first letters  of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, refers to activities within these  academic disciplines. 104 Seval Fer  The term, STEM, is also used in a broader sense to include psychology, the social sci‐ ences (e.g., political science), economics, the physical and life sciences, engineering fields,  physics, chemistry, biology, and mathematics. On the other hand, it is also used with a  narrower definition that generally excludes the social sciences and focuses specifically on  mathematics, science, computer, and information sciences, and engineering; however, in  recent years, some analysts have argued that field-specific definitions are too narrow and  that definitions of STEM should focus on “an assemblage of practices and processes that  transcend disciplinary lines and from which the knowledge and learning of a particular  kind emerges” (Congressional Research Service, 2018, p. 2).  As can be easily seen, there is no consensus on the concept of STEM education and the  disciplines it covers. It is understood that the concept is used with meanings that extend  from narrow to broad. However, generally speaking, STEM comprises four main disci‐ plines: science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. In recent years, the acronym  SMET has also been preferred to STEM. It consists of the first letters of the disciplines  of science, mathematics, engineering, and technology, among which the positions of two  disciplines have changed.  Typically, the term STEM education refers to teaching and learning in the fields  of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. It typically includes educational  activities across all grade levels – from pre-school to post-doctorate; therefore, STEM  education might be used for instructional activities in both formal (e.g., classrooms) and  informal (e.g., afterschool programs) settings (Congressional Research Service, 2018).  STEM education is an intentional, multidisciplinary approach to teaching and learn‐ ing. Thus, students cover and acquire a joint set of concepts and competencies in science,  technology, engineering, and mathematics via STEM education. It is also applied in and  transferred to both academic and real-world contexts (Rider-Bertrand, 2015; cited in,  Erden, & Fer, 2018). STEM education is regarded as an interdisciplinary approach that  integrates the areas represented by its name; it involves use of these disciplines together  in an instructional platform for learning and teaching.  The answer to the question “What does STEM education tell Us?” varies depending  on the purposes of the STEM user. On one hand, as understood from the explanations  presented above, it is possible to use the term in teaching environments; on the other, it  is possible to use the term in its popular sense.  3. Connection Between STEM Education and Curriculum and Instruction STEM education includes planned education, and planned education is provided only  through curriculum and instructional design. Therefore, we need to design a STEMoriented curriculum to teach students and others interested in STEM.  The STEM curriculum and instruction support active, collaborative, and meaningful  learning, as well as mastery of skills (Innovate, 2014; cited in, Erden, & Fer, 2018) via STEM Curriculum Development: The Case of T urkey 105  a multidisciplinary, integrated, and student-centered approach. According to Larmer  and Mergendoller (2012, cited in Misher, 2014), the ideal learning environment engages  students in interdisciplinary work and project-based learning using real-world contexts.  The main aim of the STEM-oriented curriculum is to increase the interest of students  in STEM. STEM education also seems an effective approach to improving the skills of  students in courses by using technological tools and producing new technologies. Thus,  the STEM-oriented curriculum might also provide a good solution to students with poor  concentration and wavering attention spans who quickly become bored in traditional  courses. Therefore, equal opportunity can be provided to such students.  On the other hand, Bybee (2010; cited in Erden, & Fer, 2018) noted that one of  the major challenges in implementing STEM education is the integration of technology  and engineering knowledge into the teaching curriculum (Erden, & Fer, 2018). Still, the  STEM-oriented curriculum has been extended to a great number of countries along with  United States (Hallinen, 2020).  The most appropriate curriculum design might be a broad-fields design, often called  interdisciplinary design, which is an interdisciplinary approach to teaching and learning  that can be transferred and applied in both academic and real-world contexts. With a  discipline-integrated and student-centered approach, the STEM curriculum and instruc‐ tion, including extra-curricular activities, promote active, collaborative, and meaningful  learning for students via interdisciplinary work and project-based learning by using realworld contexts.  Figure 1: Broad-Fields Design for the STEM Curriculum 106 Seval Fer  According to Ornstein and Hunkins (2018), the curricular emphasis of broad-fields  design is on linking separate subjects and disciplines, while maintaining their separate  identities. The underlying philosophy of broad-fields design is both essentialism and  progressivism. The source of the curriculum in broad-fields design is knowledge and  society, inspired by the pioneering work of Broudy and Dewey.  As shown in Figure 1, broad-fields design allows students a comprehensive under‐ standing of all content areas because it not only interconnects well-accepted content  fields but also attempts to integrate all content that logically fits together. According  to broad-fields design, the separate subject is impractical and ineffective. Instead, we  need to make use of emergent clusters of problems and questions that engage students in  constructing and reconstructing information. On the other hand, like other designs, the  design faces problems, the most important being breadth at the expense of depth. “The  issue of depth is even more central when we expand the broad-fields design to integrated  curriculum design” (Ornstein & Hunkins, 2018, p. 191). The philosophies of schools  and educators influence their responses. For instance, in science, how much depth will  students achieve on the theme of dinosaurs or machines? And how will they construct  the webs of related concepts (Ornstein & Hunkins 2018)?  4. STEM Studies in Universities Some universities have STEM laboratories or centers thanks to which they can orga‐ nize STEM workshops and provide training and consultancy services for students and  teachers. Some universities also conduct STEM-based projects. In addition, they build  strategies to learn STEM-based research for life. In general, many studies are carried out  for teachers to help them conduct their lessons with a focus on STEM. Some examples  collected from university web pages are presented below.  At Hacettepe University, the STEM & Maker Lab was established in 2009. The lab  has been conducting projects and research, providing teacher education, and evaluating  strategies to learn STEM for life. Moreover, teacher workshops, projects, and training  related to STEM are organized at Middle East T echnical University. Similarly, there is a  STEM Academy-Openfab at Ozyegin University.  The STEM school, STEM lab, STEM projects, and STEM teacher certification pro‐ gram are carried out at Aydın University. The STEM school has been open since 2005,  and has been providing STEM education to primary and secondary schools who want to  study STEM. Within the scope of the STEM project, it aims to educate both teachers  and students in STEM fields and to introduce appropriate programs (Akgündüz et al.,  2015; cited in Erden, & Fer, 2018).  The studies presented above appear to focus on teacher training, research, or projects  in STEM studies at universities. However, STEM education requires going beyond the  studies offered in centers or laboratories. In other words, STEM education requires STEM Curriculum Development: The Case of T urkey 107  instructional design with a holistic approach. Furthermore, it should also be addressed in  curriculum development with a broad-fields design. and should not be considered only  when training teachers or conducting projects. In short, STEM ought not to be thought  of as just an activity that enriches teaching..  5. STEM Access in Private Primary, Junior, and High Schools STEM education in private schools in T urkey draws intense interest. On the website of  these schools, it is emphasized that most provide STEM education. There are examples  of information and implementation of STEM on these websites, but their reliability  is controversial. For correct implementation of STEM, the best example among these  schools is Bahcesehir College. STEM centers have been established in this college uniting  different areas such as science laboratories, computer laboratories, innovation laborato‐ ries, production workshops, and art workshops in one place to create interdisciplinary  work and production environments.  Emphasized on the web site of Bahcesehir College (2020), they adopted a STEM+A  model, which is a project-oriented model based on the combination of multiple disci‐ plines; science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and arts are taught together. The  model is implemented at all campuses of the institution, starting from the preschool  grades. The main aim of the STEM+A model is to nurture individuals who are able to  solve the problems of the future, think creatively, and convert ideas into results.  “At STEM+A centers featuring multi-purpose laboratories for production-based education  with STEM+A focused projects, students are enabled to use state-of-the-art instruments  such as 3D printers, CNC lathe & turning, laser cutters such as computerized hot wire cut‐ ting tools that are hard to find even at universities. In order to manufacture prototypes for  their projects, which are “Computer Assisted Drawing and Modeling,” “RC Model Produc‐ tion Club – RC CLUB,” and TUBITAK projects, patenting and utility model production  classes are offered within Bahçe¸ sehir College curriculum as elective courses in all campuses  of Bahçe¸ sehir College.” (Bahcesehir College, 2020, p. 1)  6. STEM Studies in the Ministry of National Education The Ministry of National Education is the only institution responsible for the im‐ plementation, decision-making, and supervision at all levels of education up to higher  education in T urkey. Therefore, it is necessary to mention the work of this institution  under separate headings and in more detail below.  STEM education in primary, junior and high schools in the Ministry of National  Education : In T urkey, mathematics has always been taught in K12 classes as a separate  course; however, science courses have been taught with an integrated approach from the  establishment of the T urkish Republic until now. 108 Seval Fer  In 1924, as a guest of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk who is the founder and first president  of T urkey, Dewey came to T urkey, stayed for two months, and prepared a report after  making examinations. One of Dewey’s suggestions was the practical and interconnected  teaching of courses (Akkutay, 1996). Following this suggestion, science courses, includ‐ ing biology, agriculture, physics, and chemistry, were connected and subjects were also  prepared with real-life experiences in the new curriculum.  Although it does not cover the same disciplines, a similar approach has been applied in  another science curriculum up to now, yet the name the course has changed from Science  and T echnology to T echnology and Design (Ministry of National Education, 2016).  Although T urkey does not have a STEM action plan prepared by the Ministry of  National Education, there are some strategic goals to strengthen STEM education in the  Strategic Plan. According to the plan, the STEM-related goals have to match with the  outcomes of T echnology and Design courses. It is already understood that the objectives  of STEM overlap with the aims of the T echnology and Design course to some extent  (Milli E˘ gitim Bakanlı˘ gı, 2019a).  There is also a Science Application course that has been available as an elective in sec‐ ondary school. The outcome of this course is to educate scientifically literate individuals  who will be able to do research in science, read science-related books and articles, and  improve science skills. Students who know how to gain this knowledge and these skills  will also find it easier to understand the scientific solutions to problems they encounter  (Ministry of National Education, 2016). It is understood that the objectives of STEM  overlap with the aims of the Science Application course to some extent.  The following can be said regarding the inclusion of STEM education in primary and  secondary school science and mathematics curricula implemented in T urkey: The aim is  that students will be educated as scientifically literate individuals with knowledge, skills,  and positive attitudes toward science, technology, society, and environment (Ministry  of National Education, 2016). This situation implies that, even though science and  mathematics curricula give importance to the interaction between science, technology,  and society, STEM integration and engineering skills are neglected in the curricula.  Recently, courses related to STEM do not seem adequate in K12 schools. In addition  to mandatory courses – which are mathematics and science, technology and design,  information technologies and software –, it is understood that elective courses related to  STEM are needed (Ministry of National Education, 2014; cited in Erden, & Fer, 2018).  Generally speaking, at academic and vocational high schools, there are mathematics  and science courses related to STEM; nevertheless, all of them are designed in accor‐ dance with a subject-based curriculum. Although the importance of interaction between  science and technology and society is emphasized in the curriculum, STEM integration  and engineering are not directly involved.  In general, primary and middle school curricula compatible with STEM education  can be characterized as follows: progressivismand constructivism-based, broad-fieldsbased, and inquiryand project-based for science courses. Contrary to the requirements STEM Curriculum Development: The Case of T urkey 109  of STEM education, secondary school curricula can be characterized as follows: essen‐ tialism-based, subject-based, and built on content-based instructional design (Erden, &  Fer, 2018). Thus, it might be said T urkey has applied curricula with STEM-oriented  principles in primary and middle schools while the high school curricula is quite remote.  Recently, it has been understood that there are two important factors to consider  while adopting STEM curricula for K12 schools in T urkey: whether STEM should be  addressed through a series of separate courses (i.e., a combination of science, technology,  engineering, mathematics, algebra, geometry, physics courses) or whether STEM con‐ cepts should be included in the content across all courses (e.g., combining velocity in a  physics course with calculation in mathematics) (Ministry of National Education, 2016).  In other words, a decision should be made regarding curricular design for a subject-based  curriculum or a correlational-based design curriculum.  STEM Studies : A study group consisting of experts, private school teachers, and aca‐ demicians has been formed, and, as a result of the initiative, sample lesson plans including  STEM practices have been prepared in order for private schools to correctly understand  and put STEM into practice. With this initiative, a resource that will set an example for  private schools has been created in order to organize teaching in accordance with the  STEM approach (Ministry of Education, 2019b).  In addition, the Ministry of Education (Milli E˘ gitim Bakanlı˘ gı, 2018) printed a  teacher handbook to guide teachers on STEM concepts and STEM practice and to show  them how to carry out a STEM project.  STEM Centers of the Ministry of National Education : Within the scope of these stud‐ ies, the Ministry of Education has been opening STEM centers in various provinces and  districts outside of schools in recent years. The centers are for students from preschool  to high school, and students in these centers learn by engaging in integrated activities  in STEM fields. The first STEM centers were established in some provinces, including  Istanbul and Hatay, in 2016. Also, 160 teachers were trained for the centers in the same  year. Moreover, in-service training was given to teachers within the scope of basic and  advanced STEM training.  The STEM center is a positive step for the proper use and development of STEM, but  these centers are also needed at or near schools. In addition, curricula should be organized  in accordance with the STEM qualifications, and more in-service training is needed  to educate teachers about STEM. Also, the STEM Report of the Ministry of National  Education (2016) pointed out that more STEM education centers for the transition to  STEM education are needed, as is more STEM education research. Furthermore, training  of STEM teachers is needed regarding STEM curricula.  Scientix Project and the Ministry of National Education:  In 2014, the Ministry of  National Education joined the Scientix Project run by the European School Network. 110 Seval Fer  Scientix (The Community for Science Education in Europe) is a community in which  about “30 European countries participate with the aim of the dissemination of good  practices, projects, and materials used in STEM education in Europe” (Ministry of Na‐ tional Education, 2016, p. 26).  The purpose of the Scientix project is to promote education based on inquiry, re‐ search, production, and innovation in STEM education in Europe. The project aims to  create a community of teachers who create project / problem-based STEM education  activities for their students in order to encourage scientific humanity and engineering.  The project also aims to encourage elementary and secondary school teachers who have  the skills in inquiry, research, production, and invention and who are capable and in‐ terested in STEM to emphasize science, technology, engineering, and mathematics at  schools (Milli E˘ gitim Bakanlı˘ gı, 2019a).  Scientix (2019) has been promoting a European-wide collaboration for STEM in the  community including teachers, educators, researchers, policymakers, and other profession‐ als since 2009. Now, funded by the Horizon 2020 program of the European Union for  research and innovation, Scientix activity is continuing in the third stage (2016–2019).  Within the scope of the Scientix Project, STEM workshops have been held in different  provinces in T urkey. In addition, a STEM training handbook, which includes information  and sample applications about how teachers can implement STEM, has been published.  7. What do Projects and Research T ell Us About STEM? In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of projects and studies related  to STEM education in T urkey. In general, according to one study (see Akda˘ g & Güne¸ s,  2017; Altun & Yı ldı rı m, 2016; Ceylan, 2014; Ensari, 2017; Öztürk, 2017; cited in  Demirci, 2018) carried out in T urkey, STEM education increases motivation of students  as well as encourages them to learn more effectively.  Contrary to findings describe above, another study conducted with 3rd-grade high  school students found no difference between the final test scores of the experimental  group, in which STEM-based instructional design was applied, and those of the control  group, in which modular instructional design was applied (Demirci, & Fer, 2019).  The research findings of yet another study showed that interests of female students  are higher for biology, livestock & veterinary, and medical sciences, whereas those of male  students are higher for computer sciences, energy, ship-aircraft, and engineering. Also, it  was found that engineering and space sciences are the most preferred occupations, and  agriculture, aquaculture, and energy are the least preferred. It was seen that high school  students’ attitudes toward STEM are generally positive. Overall, male students had more  positive attitudes toward STEM than female students (Ocak, 2017).  The Ministry of National Education (2016) collected data from teachers of primary  and secondary schools regarding their opinions about STEM education. Results are as STEM Curriculum Development: The Case of T urkey 111  follows: The participants stated that STEM education should be integrated into the  curricula of primary and secondary schools and that an interdisciplinary curriculum  is needed. In addition, participants also stated that STEM course activities should be  integrated into the curriculum. Moreover, participants stated that it is necessary to renew  science labs and provide new experiment equipment in schools. Finally, participants  stated that STEM teacher training programs should be launched so that STEM course  teachers can be trained by faculties of education of universities. It is interesting that  the above-mentioned findings were obtained from questionnaire items completed by the  vast majority of teachers participating, which can be considered an indicator of teacher  awareness of STEM education.  Another study conducted by the Ministry of National Education included a nationwide survey of 13,958 students and qualitative interviews with students participating  in STEM activities in Ankara. The attitudes toward STEM activities of the students  participating in the research were found to be positive. In addition, students stated that  they found STEM activities useful and enjoyable, learned the lessons more easily, and  wanted to choose a profession in the field of STEM in the future (Ulutan, 2018). While  the research findings reveal positive attitudes of students toward STEM, they also show  that students have difficulties finding solutions and solving problems in STEM activities.  In other research conducted by the Ministry of National Education, a questionnaire  was given to 42,207 teachers in order to gather their opinions on STEM learning prac‐ tices. It showed that teacher opinions about STEM activities were positive and that  teachers wanted to improve themselves in STEM. In addition, it was found that mostly  secondary school teachers prepared STEM practices, and that teachers who received  postgraduate education showed more interest in STEM education (Bal, 2018). Findings  suggest attitudes of teachers toward the STEM approach improve as their education  progresses.  Furthermore, it was seen that the employment rate of people who graduated from  STEM education departments of universities was 19 % . It also found a significant differ‐ ence between those in STEM-related occupations and those whose jobs were not related  to STEM in companies where they work. In terms of gender, a research finding indicated  that the gender gap of people working in the field of STEM occupations was quite high  with 64 % of men and 36 % of women TUS ˙IAD, 2014).  According to research findings, STEM has some limitations. STEM is a practiceoriented approach; therefore, the most important limitation of STEM applications is  that it is time-consuming. Some studies (see Kumtepe, 2017; Tarkın-Çelikkıran & Ay‐ dın-Günbatar, 2017; cited in Demirci, 2018) also support this idea. T eachers or teacher  candidates using STEM activities stated that these activities are time consuming and  limited.  Another limitation of STEM as a practice-based approach is that it is difficult to  practice in crowded classrooms. According to 2016–2017 data, the average number of  students per classroom is 31 in T urkey in general and 39 in Istanbul (Ministry of National 112 Seval Fer  Education, 2016). This makes it difficult for teachers to implement time-consuming  STEM activities.  Since the STEM approach has become widespread in T urkey only in the last 10 years,  there are not enough academic and practical resources in T urkish. This situation makes  it difficult for teachers who practice STEM to have enough information about it. In the  study by Tarkın-Çelikkıran and Aydın-Günbatar (2017; cited in Demirci, 2018), preservice teachers stated that they had difficulty finding information related to STEM.  In general, although STEM is predominantly a practice-oriented approach, few  studies and projects can be found to guide practitioners. Consequently, there are few  manuscripts, theses, books, or other resources in T urkish. Because of the limited re‐ sources for practitioners, STEM is not thought to be used widely throughout T urkey  or implemented correctly.  8. Conclusion and Future Directions STEM’s popularity and its high demand in T urkey, as well as around the world, is, in a  sense, promising for the development of STEM in education. On the other hand, this  intense interest causes STEM to be misused or deformed in its purposes with a populist  approach. As Akgündüz (2016) emphasizes, STEM has been misunderstood and applied  from a populist point of view in recent years; as a result, it is perceived more as a type of  activity than a teaching approach. These misperceptions and practices sometimes cause  more harm than good to STEM and inhibit its implementation.  In addition, while planning training for the STEM approach, some mistakes are  made within the framework of the trendy STEM concept. Among these mistakes, the  most common is to evaluate activities that can only be produced as a kit – robotics,  coding, makers – and applying these kits as STEM education. Another mistake is the  view with which STEM training is applied in all countries in Europe. Considering science  experiments or school activities as STEM education also increases the seriousness of the  mistake (Bal, 2018). While STEM practices encourage the relationship between reallife problems and course content, they should also transfer theoretical knowledge into  practice, encourage individuals to search for answers to questions, and ultimately increase  productivity.  In conclusion, the Ministry of National Education, universities, and other institu‐ tions are all interested in improving STEM education; however, much more effort is  needed, including integration of curricular and extra-curricular activities. As long as  STEM studies are not reflected as an interdisciplinary approach in curricula and sup‐ plemented with extra-curricular activities, it seems difficult to achieve successful results.  The Ministry of National Education, universities, and other institutions are clearly  interested in improving STEM education; however, much more effort is needed in order  for students, especially for female students, to benefit from STEM training. STEM Curriculum Development: The Case of T urkey 113  References Akgündüz, D. (2016). STEM’i rahat bı rakı n: Türkiye’de STEM adı na yapı lan hatalar ve öneriler .  Retrieved from https://www. egitimpedia. com/ stemirahatbirakinturkiyedestemadina yapilanhatalarveoneriler/  Akkutay, Ü. (1996). Milli E˘ gitimde yabancı uzman raporları: Atatürk dönemi . Ankara: Avni  Akyol Kültür ve E˘ gitim Vakfı .  Bahcesehir College. (2020). STEM. Retrieved from http://www. bahcesehir. k12. tr/ tr/ images/  pdf/ BKENG. pdf  Bal, H. (2018). Küresel ba˘ glamda STEM yakla¸ simlari . Ankara: Milli E˘ gitim Bakanli˘ gi-Y enilik ve  E˘ gitim T eknolojileri Genel Müdürlü˘ gü.  Congressional Research Service. (2018). Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics  (STEM) education: An overview . Retrieved from https://crsreports. congress. gov/ product/  pdf/ R/ R45223  Demirci, G. (2018). STEM temelli, ö˘ grenci merkezli bir ö˘ gretim tasarı mı . Hacettepe Üniversitesi,  E˘ gitim Programları ve Ö˘ gretim Doktora Programı, ders projesi.  Demirci, G. & Fer, S. (2019). STEM temelli ö˘ gretim tasarı mı nı n ö˘ grencilerin yeterlik puanlarına  etkisi . VIth International Eurasian Educational Research Congress. EJER 2019 Abstracts  Books, June, 19–22, 2019, p. 337–338. Ankara University, EJER. Ankara: Ani Yayincilik.  Erden, M. & Fer, S. (2018). Access to STEM education in Turkey. Internatıonal Symposium on  Human Rights and Equality in STEM Educatıon: Is Access to Scı ence (Still) Limited?  October,  1st, Berlin, Germany.  Hallinen, J. (2020). STEM: An owerview STEM education. Encyclopedia Britannica . Retrieved  from https://www. britannica. com/ topic/ STEMeducation/ STEMeducation  Milli E˘ gitim Bakanlı˘ gı. (2018). STEM e˘ gitimi ö˘ gretmen el kitabı . Ankara: Y enilik ve E˘ gitim  T eknolojileri Genel Müdürlü˘ gü.  Milli E˘ gitim Bakanlı˘ gı. (2019a). 2018 yı lı birim faaliyet raporu . Ankara: Y enilik ve E˘ gitim  T eknolojileri Genel Müdürlü˘ gü.  Milli E˘ gitim Bakanlı˘ gı. (2019b). Kazanı m merkezli STEM uygulamaları . Ankara: T.C. MEB  Özel Ö˘ gretim Kurumları Genel Müdürlü˘ gü.  Ministry of National Education. (2016). STEM education report . Retrieved from http://yegitek.  meb. gov. tr/ STEM_ Education_ Report. pdf  Misher, P. H. (2014). Project-Based Learning in a STEM Academy: Student Engagement and  Interest in STEM Careers. Unpublished PhD thesis, Gardner-W ebb School of Education.  Ocak, M. H. (2017). Investigation of students’attitudes towards STEM and the relatıonships  with career preferences. A.M. Thesis in Y editepe Unıversıty Instıtute of Educatıonal Sciences  MA Program in Curriculum and Instruction.  Ornstein, A. C., & Hunkins, F. P. (2018). Curriculum : Foundations, principles, and issues .  Boston: Pearson.  Scientix. (2019). Scientix: The community for science education in Europe: Basic education . Re‐ trieved from http://www. scientix. eu/ projects/ projectdetail? articleId= 246063  TUSIAD. (2014). STEM alanı nda e˘ gitim almı ¸ s i¸ sgücüne yönelik talep ve beklentiler ara¸ stırması.  Istanbul: TUS ˙IAD yayı n  no. T/2014, 10–557  TUSIAD. (2018). 2023’e do˘ gru Türkiye’de STEM gereksinimi . Retrieved from https://www.  pwc. com. tr/ tr/ gundem/ dijital/ 2023edogruturkiyedestemgereksinimi. html 114 Seval Fer  Ulutan, E. (2018). Dünyada e˘ gitim trendleri ve ülkemizde STEM ö˘ grenme etkinlikleri: MEB  K12 okullari örne˘ gi . Ankara: Milli E˘ gitim Bakanli˘ gi-Y enilik ve E˘ gitim T eknolojileri Genel  Müdürlü˘ gü. Education and Post-War Politics: The Case of Bosnia-Herzegovina  Lamija T anovi´ c  1. Introduction 1.1 The Nature of the Conflict: The Bosnian War (1992–1995) The education sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) has suffered as a result of the  recent conflict in the country, the Bosnian W ar, which lasted from 1992 until 1995.  In order to understand the state of education in post-conflict BiH, therefore, we must  consider the effects of the war on the physical, political, and social environment in  the country. During the war, towns and villages were reduced to rubble, bridges were  destroyed, and roads were demolished; many civilians were killed, and entire populations  were driven into exile.1  In addition to damaging practically all aspects of life in the conflict zone, war can  have a tragic impact on education. The education system in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a  case in point. Education facilities across BiH were badly affected by the war. Many school  buildings and classrooms were rendered essentially uninhabitable:  W ell over half of all school buildings in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been seriously  damaged, destroyed, taken over by the army or used to house people displaced by the war.  In the remaining available spaces, pupils, students and teachers occupy many classrooms  that have been poorly maintained and have no glass in the windows, no doors and no heat  (Almeida et al., 1996, p. 27).  At the same time, the provision of educational services was also made difficult due to  an acute shortage of qualified teachers (Arnhold et al., 1996). Many qualified teachers  left the country. Others were mobilized into the armed forces. Some were victims of  war-related violence. Furthermore, many children and young people were displaced and  forced to change school, sometimes multiple times, or were unable to attend school  at all (Magill, 2010, p. 37). Although valiant efforts were made to continue providing  education to the country’s youth under these near-impossible circumstances, it is clear  that the education sector in BiH suffered greatly during the Bosnian W ar.  1 According to the International Criminal T ribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) demographics unit,  it is estimated that at least 104,732 persons were killed during the war. This includes a disproportionate  number of civilians, and especially children (Zwierzchowski & Tabeau, 2010, p. 15). Millions of others  were displaced and sought refuge either in other countries or in other parts of BiH (Stabback, 2007,  p. 450).116 Lamija Tanovi´ c  1.2 The Nature of the Peace: The Dayton Agreement The war ended with the main parties to the conflict reaching a peace agreement, officially  known as the General Framework Agreement for Peace (GFA), and also known as the  Dayton Agreement. The agreement was negotiated in November 1995, at a United States  army base in Dayton, Ohio. It contains eleven annexes treating various aspects of life in  a country that had been ravaged by war in the years preceding it. The agreement and  its annexes were conceived by United States diplomats under the leadership of Richard  Holbrook. Negotiations on the final text included delegations from the countries of  Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and Serbia. The presidents of these three countries  were signatories of the agreement. Guarantors and witnesses to the agreement included  European Union special negotiators, and the presidents of France, Germany, the Russian  Federation, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The full and formal agreement  was signed in Paris on December 14, 1995 (Fig. 1).  Figure 1: Signing the Dayton Peace Accord in  Paris, 14 December, 1995; Source: https://en.  wikipedia. org/ wiki/ Dayton_ Agreement# / media/  File:Signing _ the _ Dayton _ Agreement _ Milose‐ vic_ Tudjman_ Izetbegovic. jpg  The Dayton Agreement proposed a new political structure for Bosnia and Herzegovina.  This new structure was agreed upon as part of Annex 4, one of the eleven annexes  to the agreement, which established a new constitution for BiH. What had hitherto  been the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina was transformed into a state made up  of two entities – the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBiH) and Republika  Srpska (RS) – and one district around the town of Brˇ cko, known as Brˇ cko District (BD)  (Fig. 2). The rotating state presidency of the country was to consist of three members:  a Bosniak member, a Bosnian Croat member, and a Bosnian Serb member. The highest  governing institution would be the Parliamentary Assembly, which has two chambers,  the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. This state-level government,  however, retained only the functions that would enable it to act as the government of the Education and Post-W ar Politics: The Case of Bosnia-Herzegovina 117  Figure 2: New composition of BiH created by Annex 4 of Dayton Peace  Accord. Source: https://www. mapsland. com/ europe/ bosniaandherze‐ govina/ largepoliticalmapofbosniaandherzegovina1997  internationally recognized state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Other functions, including  education, were transferred to RS and FBiH (Almeida et al., 1996, p. 11).  This peace, long-awaited, brought with it its own troubles. The peace agreement  changed the organization of the country and turned it into an ungovernable state. In  other words, the Dayton Agreement, under the patronage of the United States and the  European Union, reconstructed the country in a way that allowed the war to continue in  different guises, though the weapons had been silenced.  2. Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2.1 The Dayton Agreement and Education Education was not high on the agenda during the peace negotiations in Dayton, Ohio.  However, the post-war education sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina is in many ways  a product of the Dayton Agreement. Namely, as previously mentioned, the agreement 118 Lamija Tanovi´ c  created two political entities in the country – the Republika Srpska and the Federation  of Bosnia and Herzegovina – each with its own governmental structures. The Republika  Srpska was given a centralized administration; the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina  was to consist of ten cantons, each with its own administration. In other words, one  entity (RS) was established as a centralized mini-state, which decided to develop a much  more intense level of cooperation with a neighboring state – Serbia – than with the rest  of its own country. The other entity (FBiH) was fragmented into ten mini-states or  cantons, each of which has almost unlimited power over the education sector (Fig. 3).  Additionally, there is a third piece of Bosnia and Herzegovina – District Brˇ cko – with its  own education policies. Therefore, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina was left with no  responsibilities in the education sector.  Figure 3: Fragmentation of F BiH into ten ministates, cantons  This complicated administrative structure has hampered the organization of many sec‐ tors, including the education sector. In the education sector, this complexity is reflected  in the fact that education is administered from fourteen different ministries: ten at the  cantonal levels, two at the entity levels, and one at the state level (though it lacks a  significant mandate), as well as one department at the level of the Brˇ cko District. Each of  these education authorities makes its own laws regulating various segments of education.  Although there exists a framework law at the state level governing education, this is not  sufficient to enable the necessary reforms and modernization of education in its various  aspects.  The Dayton constitution provides the perfect framework for all the political mis‐ takes in the education sector. The BiH Constitution accommodates this state of affairs  because, according to Article III (Annex 4 of the Dayton Agreement), all powers (that are  “not expressly assigned” to state institutions) are given to the entities (Republika Srpska Education and Post-W ar Politics: The Case of Bosnia-Herzegovina 119  and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina), while Section III, Article 4(b) of the  Federation Constitution gives the cantons responsibility for “making education policy,  including decisions concerning the regulation and provision of education.” Education is  thus highly decentralized in the Federation of BiH and highly centralized in the RS, while  remaining decentralized in the state as a whole. In other words, the Dayton Agreement  has created an immensely institutionally complex structure that has made the task of  educational reform not merely difficult but gargantuan.  The extravagant state structure inaugurated by the Dayton Agreement has resulted  in, among other things, a series of negative effects on the education sector. According  to a recent study, “From the very beginning, the Constitution created a decentralized,  asymmetric and defective education management system that has undermined unity in  educational policies, common educational goals, common values, positive and patriotic  feelings for one’s country and homeland, etc.” (Pašali´ c-Kreso, 2008, p. 360). As a direct  result of this decentralized organization made possible by the Dayton constitution, local  politicians have been given the opportunity to vie over education, and education has  become a battleground in their continued war.  2.2 The Fragmentation of Education in Post-War Bosnia and Herzegovina One of the main consequences of the Dayton Agreement has been the high degree of  fragmentation of the education sector, making coordination at the state level almost  impossible. The post-Dayton fragmentation of the education system in Bosnia and  Herzegovina has also had serious implications on the price of education. The institu‐ tionally complex structure and the politically imposed segregation in education have led  to inefficient spending and considerable duplication. The administration of education  is fragmented into fourteen education authorities and, furthermore, schools have also  been fragmented into smaller institutions, in comparison to average sizes needed to set  up a school. All of this has led to a large percentage of gross national income being spent  on education.  Furthermore, the fragmented nature of the education system is to blame for the lack  of a database and official statistics at the state level. This has had serious implications.  Namely, such a database is necessary, among other reasons, to ensure that all children  and young people in BiH, whatever their ethnicity, enjoy the right to education equally.  It is also a way to monitor the quality of education provided.  2.3 The Neglect of Education in Post-War Bosnia and Herzegovina In the past twenty-five years, during a post-war period of often misguided activity, ed‐ ucation has been a neglected area in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, throughout this  period, education was never a priority either for domestic authorities or for the inter‐ national community, which has had a wide-reaching and strong mandate and has been 120 Lamija Tanovi´ c  Infrastructure 42.98 %  Economic development and social protection 27.60 %  Good governing and institutional development 8.63 %  Conflict prevention, peace, and security 5.68 %  Mixed sectors 4.56 %  Local governing 4.10 %  Agriculture and forestry 1.97 %  EDUCATION 1.64 %  Health 1.61 %  Environmental protection 1.19 %  T able 1: Sector share of ODA (Official Development Assistance) in Bosnia and Herzegovina  (2007) SOURCE: Magill 2010, p. 24 present in Bosnia and Herzegovina ever since the war. There are a number of reasons for  this. The 1992–1995 war in the country disrupted all areas of life, including education.  The country suffered large-scale destruction. Post-war recovery was slow. Priority was  naturally given to the physical reconstruction of infrastructure: rebuilding roads, bridges,  housing, and demining, etc. T ruth be told, along with bridges, roads, and houses, many  schools were also rebuilt, but almost nothing was done in those early years to improve the  content and quality of education. Most of the initial post-war focus on education was  concerned with the rebuilding of infrastructure, rather than issues of curriculum reform  and teaching quality (Stabback, 2008, p. 450).  Since the war, the international community has made large financial and material  donations in order to help the reconstruction and recovery of a heavily damaged and  war-torn country. However, comparatively speaking, they have also neglected education,  which is particularly visible from an analysis of donations to different sectors in BiH. In  the post-war period, BiH received significant funds for reconstruction. However, only a  very small percentage of these were used for the education sector, as can be seen in the  following table:  2.4 Other Issues in Education in Post-War Bosnia and Herzegovina 2.4.1 Primary Schooling Contrary to popular belief, education in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not without costs.  Primary schools do not provide free textbooks, free lunches, or free transportation, and  state funds for these essentials are minimal. For this reason, some parents, especially in  rural areas, do not send their children to primary school. Education and Post-W ar Politics: The Case of Bosnia-Herzegovina 121  2.4.2 Secondary Schooling In gymnasia, the overloaded curricula are an unsuitable preparation for higher education.  The four years of secondary schooling in gymnasia would function better if split into two  years for general education and two years for focused pre-university studies. Also, there  is no externally assessed graduation exam. This type of graduation exam is much needed.  Without external assessment, there is a lack of impartiality and objectivity in awarding  grades, and this opens up the system to chronic unevenness, unreliability, and corrup‐ tion. Vocational schools are comparable to gymnasia. They also suffer from overloaded  curricula, with too little practical work and training.  2.4.3 Failed Mechanisms A state-level Agency for Pre-Primary, Primary and Secondary Education and the Con‐ ference of Ministers of Education have been set up as permanent and supreme advisory  bodies responsible for the coordination of education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The  nine-year system of primary education, based on the Framework Law on Primary and  Secondary Education (2003), is being introduced at different speeds and in different  ways across the country. A common core curriculum was also promulgated by this same  law during the 2003/04 school year. The Strategic Directions for the Development of  Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in principle already adopted, envisages the mod‐ ernization of teaching and learning at all levels of education. According to this document,  all students of the gymnasium will undergo an external graduation exam.  Notwithstanding these measures, Bosnia-Herzegovina still has three separate school  systems, three national curricula, three sets of textbooks, and three different sets of leg‐ islation. Access to education, ethnically-biased curricula, and the physical segregation of  pupils remain key issues. Furthermore, teacher training, both pre-service and in-service,  is not standardized, and there are no financial mechanisms in place to support improve‐ ment in the quality of teachers’ work. For this, standardization of learning outcomes is  also an essential pre-requisite.  3. Education and Human Rights Issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina 3.1 Three Education Systems and the Politicization of Education Even after the war officially ended, it continued in and through the education sector.  Divisions, the conquest of territories, and ethnic cleansing that were not achieved by  war continued after peace was established. In fact, during and immediately following the  war, part of the efforts to divide the country along ethnic lines took the form of carving  up the education system. Beginning in 1992, three separate educational systems based  on three separate curricula were established, and the choice of curriculum in any given 122 Lamija Tanovi´ c  school depended on the dominant ethnic group in the territory where the school was  located (Pašali´ c-Kreso, 2008, pp. 357–358). This has continued to the present day, with  the majority of children and young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina attending separate,  mono-ethnic schools with separate curricula.  These separate curricula, with separate textbooks and separate alphabets, are often  justified on the basis of the right of every child to be schooled in his or her own mothertongue. As of 1991–1992, the Serbo-Croatian language officially stopped existing in  Yugoslav successor states. In BiH, although everyone understands all three versions of the  language, the claim (refuted by linguists) that Bosnian, Croatian, and Serbian are three  different languages was constitutionally recognized in the Dayton Agreement. This left  the possibility for the issue of language to be used to put up barriers between the three  main ethnic groups in education.  3.2 Segregation in Education: Two Schools Under One Roof Although a signatory of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (Article 28), the  European Convention on Human Rights, and the UN Declaration on Human Rights,  Bosnia and Herzegovina has still not provided equal rights to all its children. In some  parts of the country, the segregation of children along ethnic and religious lines is per‐ mitted. One of the most illustrative examples of this type of discrimination is the “two  schools under one roof” phenomenon, a bizarre invention of an international organiza‐ tion responsible for education following the 1992–1995 war.  Namely, in some parts of BiH, there are public primary and secondary schools where  children are divided into two systems based on their ethnic and religious belonging.  Furthermore, only three ethnic groups and three religions are recognized. Children who  do not belong to any of the three must opt for one. In the two schools under one roof  system, children are not only learning in what is presented as three different languages  (though linguists maintain that this is one language with three variants that have negligi‐ Figure 4: Segregated gymnazium in Travnik  (T orsti et al., 2013) Education and Post-W ar Politics: The Case of Bosnia-Herzegovina 123  Figure 5: Schoolyard with the fence and young couple in their parts of the yard (Radio Slobodna Eu‐ ropa), https://twitter. com/ SamBeharic/ status/ 1147480554977275904/ photo/ 1  ble differences), they also study three different histories, geographies, etc. Furthermore,  they are also physically segregated. Opportunities for contact are reduced to a minimum  by having children use different classrooms or go to the same school building in two  different shifts.  The case of the T ravnik Gymnasium has become well known in this respect (Fig. 4).  There, not only is the school building divided, the schoolyard features a fence so as  to prevent students from coming into contact during breaks between classes. This is  precisely why recent news of a marriage between two young people who used to go to the  two separate parts of this school building sparked such incredulity (Fig. 5). Of course,  they only met while attending the same university together; they fell in love, graduated,  and got married. Unfortunately, they never had a chance to meet while attending the  divided T ravnik Gymnasium.  There is a similar example of two students from the Stolac Gymnasium. Although  they attended school in the same building, they only met when a reporter interviewed  them (Fig. 6). For years, they went to school in two shifts in the same school buildings –  two shifts that were separated by a time gap long enough to ensure the two sets of  students would never meet. Of course, all of this is made possible by the extravagant state  structure inaugurated by the Dayton constitution. 124 Lamija Tanovi´ c  Figure 6: Segregated school in Stolac and two stu‐ dents who had no chance of meeting in the school.  Photo: IWPR  3.3 Emigration of Y oung People All of the abovementioned problems in the functioning of the state and the education  system have resulted in mass emigration, especially of young professionals. Although job  opportunities are gradually increasing, BiH is still among the three countries in Europe  with the highest unemployment rate. The high rate of youth unemployment, which is  currently around 40 % , is a particular concern.  3.4 Gender Equality and Education It should be noted that Yugoslavia, which used to comprise Bosnia and Herzegovina,  had a unique and specific form of socialism, quite different from the socialism of other  Eastern Bloc countries. The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia existed for 46 years,  from 1945 until 1991. The socialist system in Yugoslavia, which was markedly different  from that in the Soviet Union or in other Eastern Europe countries, insisted on the  equality of women in all spheres of life. As a result, a good foundation for the equality of  women was created in the former Yugoslavia.  It was perfectly acceptable and normal for a woman to be the prime minister. (Yu‐ goslavia had a female prime minister already in the 1980s.) There were many female  ambassadors. W omen served as CEOs of construction companies. W omen worked as  welders, and even as miners. And, of course, many women chose to study in traditionally  male-dominated fields. During its heyday (the 1970s and 1980s), the socialist system in  the former Yugoslavia provided a lot of support for mothers. A full year of maternity  leave, for example, was an important factor that allowed a career woman to also dedicate  herself to her family. A wide network of affordable state kindergartens also allowed  women to have a family without giving up their careers.  As part of the former Yugoslavia, Bosnia and Herzegovina is home to a generation of  women who grew up during this period. They teach their children that a woman can do Education and Post-W ar Politics: The Case of Bosnia-Herzegovina 125  any job that a man can do. Y oung women studying at the universities today have mothers  and female relatives who have chosen various professions, and these young women are  therefore very ready to choose similar or the same professions. These are probably the  most significant reasons why a larger percentage of women in Bosnia and Herzegovina  than in W estern Europe choose to go into traditionally male-dominated disciplines such  as the natural sciences and engineering.  3.5 Economic T ransition and Education The biggest shift in the wake of the war in the 1990s was the transition from socialism  to capitalism. This change caused many others, most of which were changes from better  to worse. The fact is that the transition to capitalism has spoiled many aspects of life  in BiH. It has already brought a high degree of social inequality to many areas and is  slowly encroaching on the education sector. Namely, those with the means to pay become  privileged not only in healthcare and personal living standards but also in education.  However, being able to pay the price of a private education does not afford one access  to knowledge. In the unsettled system in BiH, those who are able to pay are merely  afforded diplomas. This fact will have long-term detrimental consequences for the BiH  economy and society as a whole. Still, even as BiH entered into a period of transition from  socialism to capitalism following the 1992–1995 war, there remained a strong presence  of STEM disciplines in the majority of schools, both public and private.  4. Moving T owards Solutions 4.1 Education and Economic Indicators The growth of modern economies is increasingly based on knowledge and the creation  of knowledge. The first step in that process is investment in so-called human capital. A  knowledge-based economy, where there is awareness about the importance of research,  technology, and innovation in producing knowledge, is a successful economy. Such  economies rely directly on producing, distributing, and using knowledge and informa‐ tion.  Judging by economic indicators, Bosnia and Herzegovina is still far from a knowl‐ edge-based economy. There are a number of reasons for this:  – a fragmented, impoverished, and extravagantly administered education system, fun‐ damentally unsuited to a knowledge-based economy;  – poorly organized lifelong learning;  – a lack of quality links between the education system and the labor market;  – meagre funds invested in research; and  – a brain-drain. 126 Lamija Tanovi´ c  These are the five key reasons the BiH economy is not based on knowledge and cannot  get there in the foreseeable future.  Among the 141 countries included in the W orld Economic Forum’s Global Compet‐ itiveness Report 2019  and ranked according to 12 groups of parameters, BiH is in 92nd place. It does better or worse than this in individual parameters. However, its worst  ranking is in the group of parameters that determine readiness for innovation, where  it takes a very low 117thplace. The fact that research and development are allocated only  0.2 % of the GDP also places it in a low competitive ranking. Particularly interesting is  a group of parameters on capability for various activities. In this group of parameters,  BiH sometimes does significantly better than its average ranking, so that, for example,  the parameter “mean years of schooling” of almost ten years (9.7 years) puts it in 67th place out of 141 countries. On the other hand, in terms of the parameters for “skillset of  graduates,” “quality of vocational training,” and “critical thinking in teaching,” the coun‐ try ranks much lower, at 135th, 134th, and 133rdplace, respectively. These rankings show  that despite a relatively long period of mandatory schooling (9 years) and a relatively long  period in school on average (9.7 years), the results of this long-lasting schooling are poor,  as reflected in our rankings according to the parameters for “skillset of graduates” and  “critical thinking in teaching.”  In other words, the big difference between the rankings in indicators “mean years of  schooling” (9.7 years), on one hand, and “skillset of graduates” and “critical thinking in  teaching,” on the other, indicates that the long years of schooling in BiH result in a poor  education. This is the gap that a stronger STEM-based approach could fill if introduced  into our educational system.  4.2 STEM and Efforts to Modernize Primary and Secondary Education Aware that research, science, and technology are the foundations of progress in any  society, its economy, its ethics, and its ability to sustain itself, education strategists have  begun introducing the STEM component into the education system because progress  in science, technology, and the economy comes from successfully applying knowledge.  Therefore, STEM competences should be developed from the earliest years of learning.  The integrated approach to studying natural sciences, mathematics, and technology  is based on connecting knowledge across disciplines. This approach helps students better  understand what they are learning and prepares them to better apply what they have  learned. It is expected that the integrative approach to teaching STEM competences will  have many positive effects on our education system by  – increasing student motivation;  – introducing goal-oriented behaviors into learning;  – increasing cooperation among teachers of different subjects;  – changing and improving the evaluation of student achievements; and  – intensifying learning based on problems and projects. Education and Post-W ar Politics: The Case of Bosnia-Herzegovina 127  4.3 ENABLE BiH Three years ago, USAID designed a project titled Enhancing and Advancing Basic Learn‐ ing and Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (ENABLE BiH), aiming to modernize  education in BiH. The goal of the project was to develop a sequence of topics in all STEM  fields that would enable BiH teachers to implement the Common Core Curriculum in a  way that engages students, integrates learning across STEM disciplines, and connects to  skills needed to support employment in today’s knowledge based economy (KBE).  One of the officially proclaimed goals of education in BiH is training for a KBE.  Official documents state that “the areas of sciences, math, engineering and information  technologies are of particular importance for the entire economic and technological  development of state.” The advancement and modernization of education is one of the  key goals in the development of the education sector.  With this goal in mind, the following documents have been drawn up as part of the  ENABLE BiH project:  – Draft of the Operational T eaching Curriculum (OTC) for STEM Proficiencies and  Competences  – Implementation Guidelines for the implementation of the OTC for STEM Proficien‐ cies and Competences  – T eacher’s T raining Manual for the implementation of the OTC for STEM Proficien‐ cies and Competences  Where did the idea for this project come from? The European Commission has rec‐ ommended education based on the promotion of key competences, which means that  curricula and syllabuses are directed toward educational goals and learning outcomes.  The BiH Agency for Pre-Primary, Primary and Secondary Education has identified the  key competences that should be developed and has started to develop a Common Core  Curriculum (CCC) for eight educational areas. Three of those eight areas are 1. natural  sciences (biology, chemistry, physics, geography); 2. mathematics; and 3. technology and  information science. These are areas necessary for STEM competences and skills devel‐ opment.  An Operational T eaching Curriculum (OTC) for STEM competences and skills has  been created based on those knowledge economy sectors identified as important for the  economic progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This addresses one of the proclaimed  goals of education: training for the knowledge-based economy. At the same time, the  OTC has followed the structure of the CCC for each of the six STEM subjects (biology,  chemistry, physics, geography, math, technology, and information science). As part of  the OTC framework, a correlation of learning outcomes and associated indicators in all  STEM subjects has been established.  Furthermore, instead of a lecture-based, lesson-plan-centered curriculum, the new  approach prioritizes a teacher’s capacity to engage students with the right methods and 128 Lamija Tanovi´ c  an understanding of the learning process as it pertains to each specific subject. This  integrated approach is known as pedagogy, psychology, didactics, and teaching methods  (PPDM). Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to implement a PPDM-centered classroom  approach for STEM teaching because schools still operate using antiquated teaching  methods, with teachers reciting scripted lessons and students dutifully writing them  down. Exams merely reflect how effectively students have memorized the teacher’s lec‐ tures. Therefore, the ENABLE BiH project aims to improve student learning outcomes.  W e still do not know what the results will be for this ambitious project which has  been implemented in several pilot schools. But we certainly hope for significant improve‐ ments in teaching methods in STEM fields which should, as a result, transform the old  system into a student-centered one in which STEM subjects are taught through blended,  inquiry-based education. This could then provide a model for the reform of education  across Bosnia and Herzegovina.  5. Conclusion(s) In conclusion, in order to initiate changes and improvement across the education system  in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the best place to start is with STEM disciplines. This is both  because they are less contested in an ethnically-divided and biased system and because  they are key contributors to a knowledge-based economy. Improvement in this regard  would certainly bring positive changes for the future of the country and its young people.  References Almeida, R., Beynon, J., Gennaoui, A. M., Kolouh-W estin, L. & Uvalic-T rumbic, S. (1996).  Review of the education system in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina . UNESCO.  Arnhold, N., Bekker, J., Kersh, N., McLeish, E. & Phillips, D. (1996). Education for Reconstruc‐ tion . U.S. Department of Education.  Institute for W ar and Peace Reporting (IWPR). https://iwpr. net/ globalvoices/ segregated bosnianschoolsreinforceethnicdivision  Magill, C. (2010). Education and fragility in Bosnia and Herzegovina . UNESCO.  Pašali´ c-Kreso, A. (2008). The war and post-war impact on the educational system of Bosnia and  Herzegovina. International Review of Education , 54, 358–378.  Radio Slobodna Europa. https://www. slobodnaevropa. org/ a/ travnikogradaskolasegregacija/  30060624. html  Stabback, Ph. (2007). Common Curriculum, Core Curriculum or Common Curriculum Stan‐ dards – Finding a Solution for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prospects: Quarterly Review of Com‐ parative Education , 37(4), pp. 449–467.  T orsti, P., Besse, A., Sutcliffe. D., & Tanovi´ c. L. (Eds.) (2013). The United W orld College in  Mostar. Facts, Figures, Stories and Reflections . Education in Action, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Education and Post-W ar Politics: The Case of Bosnia-Herzegovina 129  https://uwcmostar. ba/ wpcontent/ uploads/ 2019/ 11/ UWCMostar_ FactsandFigures ENGweb. pdf  Zwierzchowski, J. & Tabeau, E. (2010). The 1992–95 W ar in Bosnia and Herzegovina: CensusBased Multiple System Estimation of Casualties’ Undercount. The Households in Conflict  Network (HiCN) . Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School  A Proposal for Emancipating and Antiracist Child Education1 Lorena Lacerda, Bruno de Jesus Brito Santana & Bárbara Carine Soares Pinheiro  1. Introduction This text is based on an experience report on the implementation of an Afro-Brazil‐ ian school in Salvador, the Blackest city in the world outside the African continent.  Salvador is a Brazilian city that has a population of more than 80 % of Black people;  however, institutional racism reserves for this population a social place of inferiority and  subservience. In this sense, we present in this article the first steps of structuring the  Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School (MFS), an emancipatory and anti-racist institution  based on the principles of decoloniality of knowledge. At MFS, we educate our children  to anti-racism by moving beyond European hegemonic knowledge and valuing other  civilizational milestones, such as those born of African and Afro-Brazilian culture, as  well as Amerindian culture.  In Brazil, a country that has a majority Black population, there is Law 10.639, sanc‐ tioned in 2003 by the President of the Republic, which alters the Law of Directives and  Bases (1996) and establishes the obligation in elementary and high school, both public  and private, to teach African and Afro-Brazilian history and culture. This is especially  important for the dissemination / appreciation of the African cultural legacy that we have  received since the 16th century because, in addition to expanding the knowledge we have  of this culture, it supposes a new look at African and Afro-Brazilian histories and their  possible relations within Brazil’s historical path. However, due to institutional racism  that we experience in our country, this law is rarely enforced in educational institutions.  In this sense, the Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School counters this injustice, understand‐ ing that our social commitment is to educate by unveiling hegemonic structures of power  that segregate individuals on grounds of race, religion, gender, sexuality, social class,  disability, or other social conditions.  The concept behind MFS arose from the process of adopting a Black child. The  child’s mother, Bárbara Pinheiro, a Black woman, and father, Ian Cavalcante, a nonBlack man, found themselves without anti-racist educational alternatives that value the  historical knowledge of our African and Amerindian ancestors, as well as our Black  identity, our culture, our aesthetics, our existence. For this reason, MFS was founded  in Salvador in 2018 and had its first academic year in 2019.  1 T ext translated from Portuguese into English by Tatiana Zanon.132 Lorena Lacerda, Bruno de Jesus Brito Santana & Bárbara Carine Soares Pinheiro  T o build a revolutionary and emancipatory model of education, from our perspective,  we sought to start from a decolonized perspective of education – one that does not  ignore knowledge that is considered socially hegemonic but that also gives voice to other  disadvantaged and sometimes erased narratives of our socio-historical construction. T o  this end, we bring – as cruelly subjugated historical knowledge – African and AfroBrazilian expertise, as well as Indigenous, which, in our view, needs to be rescued not  only to promote social justice but fundamentally as a way of understanding who we are,  as subjects constituted ancestrally also by these peoples.  W e propose an Afro-Brazilian children’s school, as we understand that a large part  of our ancestral origin resides in the African Diaspora in the Americas – a horrible and  painful episode in universal history, but one that needs to be remembered and analyzed  to understand the current condition of the Black population in Brazil. It is not just about  remembering and honouring our ancestors and ourselves but also understanding where  we have come from to understand what we are and to articulate steps for where we want  to go.  Being Afro-Brazilian means valuing Afro-Brazilian culture, recognizing in it the same  or superior significance that we give to European culture. It means socializing the history,  the cultural and intellectual production of our people in a diaspora that helped to build  high epistemic systems and territorialities, but which was sometimes plundered and  erased from history (Freitas, 2016). It means envisioning a school that problematizes  racial issues from an early age to overcome, through education, the structural racism that  we live in our society.  Our school is named for Maria Felipa, heroine of Bahia’s independence. Born on the  island of Itaparica, a descendant of enslaved Africans from Sudan, Black, a fisherwoman  and manual laborer, she led a group of 200 people, including Black women, T upinambá  Indians, and Tapuias, in the battles against the Portuguese who attacked Itaparica Island  in 1822. Maria Felipa’s group alone was responsible for burning 40 Portuguese vessels  that were close to the island.  Leading a group of women and men of different classes and ethnicities, she fortified  the beaches with the construction of trenches, organized the sending of supplies to the  Recôncavo and the so-called “vedetas” (watchmen on the beaches), fought day and night  to prevent the landing of enemy troops, and actively participated in various conflicts.  During the battles, her group helped to set fire to numerous vessels: the Canhoneira  Dez de Fevereiro, on October 1, 1822, at Manguinhos beach; the Barca Constitution,  on October 12, 1822, at Praia do Convento. On January 7, 1823, she led approximately  forty women in defense of the beaches of Itaparica. All of the women of her group were  armed with pexeiras (a special kind of knife used to cut fishes) and branches of cansanção  (a plant which causes burns on skin). They also seduced and beat the Portuguese, and  then set the boats on fire using torches made of coconut straw and lead.  Maria Felipa, like so many other Black women, was a great warrior silenced from  history. Our intention in naming our school with her grace is to honour this great Black Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School 133  woman who taught us the value of resistance and combat through the organization of  her people, strategy, and quilombola thinking.  In this article, we seek to present the results of some of our work that has sought to  build an emancipating and anti-racist early childhood education.  2. Decolonial Education According to Santos and Menezes (2010), throughout modernity, we have born witness  to “epistemicide” ( the systematic destruction of some forms of knowledge in the name of  the designs of colonialism). The production of scientific knowledge has been configured  by a single epistemological model, as if the world were monocultural.  In the 20th and 21st centuries, with the advance of capitalism, the W est experienced  the end of historical colonialism; however, coloniality remains a mechanism of domi‐ nation, structuring the new hegemonic economic system (Quijano, 2005). T o make a  paradigmatic assessment of knowledge production in Brazil, it is necessary to analyze the  historical and geographic movement that led to the colonization of Brazilian territory,  as well as the genocide and epistemicide of native and African peoples by Europeans.  In the common readings of history, we find references to North Africa as the cradle of  civilization. Y et, in general, we see African history and societies portrayed in terms that  are anecdotal, cartoonish, or infantilized when compared with an exemplary society –  that of Greece, especially Hellenic (Piza & Pansarelli, 2012).  From the perspective of colonization, the European world was not only able to under‐ mine new territories, exploring our bodies and expropriating our natural and intellectual  wealth. It went further, plundering our knowledge, denying our cultures, destroying our  aesthetic standards, seeding in our minds an ideal of denial of ourselves – a kind of  “mental slavery” that encourages us to always look at ourselves as inferior in all senses.  W e do not recognize ourselves as the first peoples to inhabit the world, as millennial  producers of knowledge, as beautiful, and as equally human. The pattern of European  coloniality created a universal, monocultural historical narrative, which envisages a world  centered on Europe – an “Old W orld” – even though it is known that the oldest human  fossil found on earth is located in East Africa.  The Eurocentrist ideology extracted from a racist model ignores and makes invisible the  plurality and productive dynamism of different forms of social organization, of ways of  thinking, and instead reproduces a geopolitically singular existence, inferiorizing the other  types, aiming to establish itself as naturally hegemonic. As expressed by Dussel (2005, p. 12),  This view is doubly false: firstly, because, as we shall see, there is still a world history (but  juxtaposed and isolated stories: the Roman, Persian, Hindu kingdoms, Zion, China, the  Meso-American world or Inca in America, etc.). Secondly, because the geopolitical place  prevents it from being the “center.” (The Red Sea or Antioch, the place where the commerce  of the East ends, are not the “center,” but the western limit of the Euro-Afro-Asian market.) 134 Lorena Lacerda, Bruno de Jesus Brito Santana & Bárbara Carine Soares Pinheiro  The most obvious victims of racism are people and groups whose identities were forged  in the colonial melting pot: Africans, Asians, and the native peoples of the Americas, as  well as those displaced by colonialism. Identity is how subjects identify with something,  present themselves to the world, and it is formed by a set of symbols responsible for  culturally demarcating belonging to certain social groups. Focusing on the process of  building the identities of Black and Black subjects, according to Gomes (2002, pp. 2– 3), Black identity is understood  [. . . ] as a process historically built in a society that suffers from ambiguous racism and the  myth of racial democracy. Like any identity process, it is built-in contact with the other, in  contrast with the other, in negotiation, exchange, conflict and dialogue.  Therefore, identities are constituted from a relational perspective – relational because  the identity of a group is not the identity of other different groups; that is, the system  of representation that marks a given identity is not the same system of representation of  other identities. Therefore, the difference and the relational (comparison with the other)  are predominant factors in the process of constituting identities (W oodward, 2005).  Eurocentrism, in its epistemic and universalizing tendency, imposes a fallacious supe‐ riority created to protect its hegemony from criticism through the mastery of the way of  producing thought. As stated by Grosfoguel (2008, p. 125),  Precisely, the success of the colonial / modern world-system lies in making subjects socially  situated on the oppressed side of colonial difference to think epistemically as those who  are in dominant positions. Subaltern epistemic perspectives are a form of knowledge that,  from below, originates a critical perspective of hegemonic knowledge in the power relations  involved.  This domination mechanism has its success because it is a-historical, within an epistemic  process, preventing the colonized from recognizing this timeless colonization. According  to Quijano (2005), modernity is one of the myths of coloniality. In this sense, Europe  emerges in a world built on a dominant hierarchical pattern – one based on fallacious  dichotomies such as modern versus traditional, civilized versus barbarian, reason versus  emotion, scientific versus mystical among others – to make use of a place, supposedly for  them created, of superiority.  European coloniality patterns created “white masks” around the world, reflected in  cultural attempts at social acceptance (Fanon, 2008). The hair issue is one of these white  masks that needs to be dropped to allow our Black faces to surface. Decolonizing this  and other European traditions perpetuated through the path of domination is necessary  today, mainly in the pedagogical field.  Decolonizing the curriculum is another challenge for school education. W e have al‐ ready denounced much about the rigidity of curricular grades, the impoverishment of the  content of curricula, the lack of dialogue between schools, curricula, and social realities,  and we recognize the need to train reflective teachers on cultures denied and silenced Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School 135  in curricula. However, it is important to consider that some change is on the horizon  (Gomes, 2017). The strength of cultures once denied and silenced in curricula has in‐ creased in recent years. Social changes, the hegemonic and counter-hegemonic processes  of globalization, and political tensions surrounding knowledge and its effects on society  and the environment are introducing, increasingly, another cultural and societal dynamic  that demands a new relationship between inequality, cultural diversity, and knowledge  (Gomes, 2017). The so-called excluded people have started to react differently: they  resort to collective and individual strategies; they find voice articulated through net‐ works. As we witness globalization that would break down borders, bringing markets  closer together and intensifying capitalist exploitation, we see, too, movements toward  counter-hegemonic globalization, in the words of Santos (2006), but also autonomous  forms of reaction, some of them harsh and violent. This complex context affects schools,  universities, fields of knowledge production, and teacher training. Along with the new  forms of capitalist exploitation, there are movements of struggle for democracy, popu‐ lar governments, counter-hegemonic reactions from countries considered peripheral or  developing.  This process affects the curriculum, school subjects, and practice, urging renewal.  And this renewal is no longer restricted to theory; it demands real connections between  theory and practice and, moreover, a renewal of the pedagogical imagination and the  relationships between subjects taught. Curricula become territories in dispute, especially  for the new social subjects organized in collective actions and social movements (Arroyo,  2011). In this sense, Law 10639/2003 helps us, as a legal instrument, in pushing for the  implementation of an educational curriculum proposal that values other narratives, in  particular those of African and Afro-Brazilian history and culture.  3. Methodology The Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School is an early childhood education school that  operates from Group II to Group V, with pedagogical activities taking place in two shifts:  the morning and the afternoon. In addition to these, the school offers the option of a full  shift. Activities in the afternoon shift take place in Portuguese and English, so that, for  Groups II to V, all didactic development carried out at school, until the children’s lunch  break, occurs with the teacher speaking in English. After the break, until the children go  home, the activities are conducted in English. In the full shift, we have, during the morn‐ ing, the usual didactic activities of the school, privileging games, reading, drawing, films,  songs, painting and portfolio production, circus classes, Capoeira, and Latin dances.  The purpose of training in these languages lies in the fact that our children need access  to the instruments of domination by the dominator. W e believe that we must not create  a ghetto that isolates our children by reinforcing the instruments of segregation. In our  view, it is not a matter of surrendering to the imperialism of English-speaking countries 136 Lorena Lacerda, Bruno de Jesus Brito Santana & Bárbara Carine Soares Pinheiro  but of giving our children conditions of social parity and access to their origins, since  much of the literary material about African and Afro-diasporic culture is in English.  Through Spanish, we seek unity with our Latin American sisters and brothers who have  experienced the same processes of cultural expropriation and violation. W e also work  with visual art, and everywhere in the school we seek to display figures representing  Blackness in spaces of power in society.  The pedagogical practices of the Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School are geared to‐ ward a daily routine that guarantees moments of care, play, integrated learning, and  critical development of a social reality aligned with the concept of child and education  that we embrace.  In this text, we seek to present the results of some of our work that aims to build an  emancipatory and anti-racist early childhood education.  4. Results and Discussion Early childhood education at Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School is organized based on  the following progression: Group II, Group III, Group IV, and Group V. Table 1 shows  relationships between group, target audience, and the number of children per class.  Groups Number of  students Age  Group II (Inca Empire) 12 2 years-old  Group III (Kingdom of Dahomey) 15 3 years-old  Group IV (Mayan Empire) 7 4 years-old  Group V (Ashanti Empire) 4 5 years-old  Integral Shift (Kush Empire) 22 From 2 to 5 years-old (second shift)  T able 1: Organizational Structure: Elaborate by the authors W e were brought up with standards of subordination that tore apart our history and  broke our ancestral ties so that we linked our origins to “slaves” or “wild Indians.” Our  aim is to re-read these lines of history, aiming to restore our great references, which  will help our children construct a positive sense of self. For this purpose, each group at  MFS is named for an African or Amerindian kingdom / empire about which the class  deepens its knowledge throughout the year. Our first academic year included an annual  project entitled “What’s in America with us.” Project work revolved around three axes:  an ancestrality axis (Unit I), and identity axis (Unit II), and a community axis (Unit III).  This organization reflects an African philosophical perspective called Sankofa, which  establishes that we can only know who we are if we respect and value where we have  come from, thus allowing us to build new social networks based on collective care and  solidarity. Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School 137  Each class was accompanied by a teacher who was, in turn, supported by one class  assistant, except for groups II and III who had two class assistants. The classes were made  up of a maximum of fifteen students, of which two places were allocated through full  scholarships offered to Black or Indigenous children from families with an income of up  to 2,000 reals [Brazilian currency]. W e also awarded many partial scholarships through  the financial support of benefactors of the project.  W e highlight below some activities of a decolonial-critical nature with an anti-racist  basis developed in our project:  W e conducted a gardening workshop from an Ubuntu perspective. Ubuntu points to  an existence marked by harmonious coexistence with the Other. In this way, the spirit  of this philosophy translates to respect that valorizes the human (muntu) and nature  (kintu). The term “W e” applies, of course, to the other person (muntu), both individually  and collectively, pointing to an existence supported by intersubjectivity. However, “W e”  can also refer to nature (kintu). In this case, it indicates that there is no existence for the  human person other than an existence through nature; in other words, the human being  is one with nature. This implies that attacking, disrespecting, and putting at risk the  human person and / or nature means denying Ubuntu and acting contrary to its ethics.  The following is a photo of the children during the workshop:  Figure 1: Ubuntu gardening workshop (source: authors’ personal file) 138 Lorena Lacerda, Bruno de Jesus Brito Santana & Bárbara Carine Soares Pinheiro  An Abayomi doll production workshop also took place at our school. These dolls were  created by enslaved Black women who produced the dolls on the tumbeiro ships (small  craft used to transport slaves between Africa and Brazil). T o cherish their children during  the terrible voyages aboard the tumbeiros, African mothers tore scraps from their skirts,  and with these they crafted small dolls, using braids or knots, which served as protective  amulets. The dolls, a symbol of resistance, became known as Abayomi, a term that means  “precious encounter,” in Y oruba (language of one of the largest ethnic groups on the  African continent, whose population inhabits parts of Nigeria, Benin, T ogo, and the  Ivory Coast). Without seams (using only knots and braids), the dolls do not have facial  features, which favors the recognition of multiple African ethnicities. Below is an image  of the children with the Abayomi dolls they produced.  Figure 2: Abayomi dolls (source: authors’ personal file) W e ran a “deprincessing” workshop, which started with the question: “How is the  princess?” . . . The answer was a chorus: “blondyyyy.” So, examples of non-thin, nonwhite, non-blond princesses were presented. . . princesses not dependent on men (or a  man’s kiss) to live and who understand that it is difficult to be happy forever. . . princesses  like Anastácia, who was a warrior, or like Shure de W akanda, who is a scientist, among  many others. The following is a photo of a Black child with a Black princess produced by  her during the deprincessing workshop: Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School 139  Figure 3: Deprincessing workshop (source: authors’ personal file)  W e chose to construct our own books (portfolios) because we understand that the  representation of Black people in textbooks, in general, reinforces the social pattern of  stigmatization and inferiority of this group, as it also does for Indigenous people, repro‐ ducing them through subordinate images and / or caricature (Silva, 2011). In this sense,  we did not include a textbook in our pedagogical proposal because our young children  need to build representations of themselves and their classmates with self-esteem and  dignity.  From the conception of the Pedagogical Political Project (2017–2018) to the current  days of the first academic year (2019), Maria Felipa School has been receiving visits from  collectives of Black women and Black men from different regions of the country, such as  the Southeast and South regions; exchange students and teachers from African countries,  such as Angola, Guinea Bissau, Mozambique, São T omé and Príncipe; as well as educators  from the United States and Brazil. The institution managed to arouse the interest of  diverse education professionals from different areas of knowledge interested in learning  more about the decolonial pedagogical perspective and pioneering institutional policy.  In particular, it is important to note the diasporic connections made through these visits  from academics, student groups, and teachers. Below, we present some of our visitors:  Dr. Elisa Larkin Nascimento paid a visit to the school. Elisa is one of the biggest names  in the anti-racist struggle in Brazil; author of a number of books, including Afrocentricity ; 140 Lorena Lacerda, Bruno de Jesus Brito Santana & Bárbara Carine Soares Pinheiro  President of the Afro-Brazilian Research and Studies Institute (IPEAFRO); and widow  of the immortal Abdias do Nascimento. (1st semester – 2018)  Quilombo Boca Preta presented us with much musicality at a seminar on decoloniz‐ ing science. (1st semester – 2018)  The Fulni-ô Indigenous people visited Maria Felipa to discuss cultural riches and  the struggles the people face. Doyá Fulni-ô, Txale Fowá Fulni-ô, Satle Fulni-ô, and San  Fulni-ô taught us a little about their children’s education and also presented us with their  art. (1st semester – 2018)  Conversation Circle (Literature for children and youth and Federal Law 10.639/03):  Dr. Maria Anoria de Jesus Oliveira and Master Reijane Maria de Jesus Oliveira of the  Educational Union of Brasilia [UNEB, for the initials in Portuguese] presented New  Paths  and Other Crossings . (2nd semester)  Conversation Circle: Ana Luísa Araújo Dias (psychologist) and Altair dos San‐ tos Lira (anthropologist) presented “Health of the Black Population and Confronting  Racism in Education: A question of Equity.”  Conversation Circle: Professor Dra. Wlamyra Albuquerque presented “A history of  Afro-Brazilian culture for early childhood education.”  Conversation Circle (Crespo empowerment in early childhood education): Lorena  Lacerda (museologist), Daílza Araújo (educator), and Laíse Neres (sociologist), all rep‐ resentatives of the organization March of Crespo Empowerment, presented “Self-image,  representations, and Black self-esteem.”  Several icons of Bahian music, including T onho Matéria (singer, composer, and  capoeirista), Mácia Short (singer and ex-Banda Mel), Marinêz (singer, ex-Banda Reflexu’s),  and the percussionists of Ilê Ayê joined us for a carnival project named “The origins of Axé.”  On March 8, 2019, women from different social perspectives joined us for a conversa‐ tion entitled, “What does it mean to me to be a woman?” Visitors included  – Thifany Odara (trans woman, social educator, damage reducer, member of the Oper‐ ative Group of the Citizenship Ombudsman of the Public Defender of the State of  Bahia);  – Rutian Pataxó (Indigenous woman of the Pataxó people, graduate student in Law,  young leader, member of the United Movement of Indigenous Peoples and Organiza‐ tions of Bahia [MUPOIBA, for the initials in Portuguese]);  – Elane Boa Morte (Black woman, mother, scientist in the field of chemistry, PhD in  Chemistry, and professor at the Federal Institute); and  – Maria Aparecida (Northeastern woman from Bahia, educator, specialist in early child‐ hood education, member of the research group Social Development in Early Child‐ hood Education).  The presence of Black female writers and Black writers in the literary field is quite  frequent in the playful education process and in the construction of children’s identities  in the institution. All work starts from the place of the writer, as the positive aesthetic Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School 141  characteristics of the characters and the voice that narrates the stories are constructed.  (Cycle Continuous / 2018)  Lívia Natália (poet, PhD in Literature, and professor of Theory of Literature at the  Federal University of Bahia [UFBA, for the initials in Portuguese]) visited the school.  She is the writer of several books, including Água Negra , Correnteza e Outros Estudos  Marinhos , Água Negra e Outras Águas , Dia Bonito Pra Chover , and Sobejos do Mar . While  visiting the school, she was invited to launch her first children’s book, As férias fantásticas  de Lili .  Luana Assiz (journalist) worked with Group IV (Mayan Empire) and Group V  (Ashanti Empire) within our project to raise awareness of Black and Amerindian people  in spaces of power. The journalist talked about her hair transition, spoke about her trip  to Angola, and showed her artistic side, singing and playing the song “Linda e Preta,”  which inspires appreciation of the Black aesthetic of the Bahian singer Nara Couto.  Vilma Reis (sociologist, human rights activist, former public ombudsman for the  State of Bahia [Public Defense – BA], candidate for the mayor of Salvador [2019]) is  one of the Black women whose trajectory is significant for the Black Movement of Bahia.  She was at the school for a proposal to make Black and Amerindian people visible in the  spaces of power. She, with her powerful voice and striking representativeness, showed us  that her path came from afar, and told the school’s educators the story of quilombola  leader T ereza de Benguela.  As part of the project “Deconstructing myths of Black intellectuality,” we were joined  by Dr. Katemari Rosa and Dr. Nadinalva Ferreira.  – Dr. Katemari Rosa (physicist, Black woman) talked about her trajectory and demon‐ strated experiments which involved physics, toys, and playfulness.  – Dr. Nadinalva Ferreira (graduate in medicine from the Bahiana School of Medicine,  Black woman) has a postgraduate degree in Obstetric Gynecology, Occupational  Medicine, and Cytology. The presence of Dr. Nadilva was significant for building  a positive image of Black people in different professional and social positions of  power.  Educators of the collective Quilombelas of Porto Alegre visited the school. They had  learned about Maria Felipa’s educational proposal through social networks and had taken  the opportunity of coming to Salvador to participate in a pedagogy congress at the  Federal University of Bahia. The moment was a lively exchange of experiences among  a group of Black women teachers who recognized in themselves much of the decolonial  pedagogical work performed at the school.  AFRICA Dr. Mamour Sop Ndiaye (African from the Senegal region) gave a lecture in partnership  with Quilombro Boca Preta at the seminar “Decolonizing Science.” (1st semester – 2018) 142 Lorena Lacerda, Bruno de Jesus Brito Santana & Bárbara Carine Soares Pinheiro  Conversation Circle (Brazil-Africa dialogues: sharing educational experiences with  University of International Integration of Afro-Brazilian Lusophony [Unilab, for the  initials in Portuguese]): W e were joined by scholars such as Chitungane Chachuaio  (Mozambique), Margarido Bendo (Angola), Y oursany Correio (São T omé and Príncipe),  Daniel T chuda (Guinea Bissau), and Cássia Vale (Brazil). Cássia launched her children’s  book Calu: A Girl Full of Stories , and was at the school at different times, as a writer and  partner! (2nd semester)  CONNECTION – AFRICAN DIASPORA The group of professors and students from Wheelock College, a faculty linked to Boston  University (USA), was received to give the lecture, “Education of the Black population  in the diaspora.” (1st semester – 2018)  Sedrick Miles (North American) carried out training with the school teachers with  the theme “Black Critical Pedagogies.”  Niyi T okunbo Mon’a-Nzambi (professor, native of Salvador [BA], Angolan descen‐ dant, researcher of African languages) was received at the school. He taught several  courses on “Kimbundu – Language of Angola and Brazil,” for example, and told the  children stories from the Y oruban worldview.  Christopher Estrada-Salazar (USA) and Abraham Asante (Ghana), exchange stu‐ dents, were received at the school for a month in partnership with the Steve Biko  Cultural Institute and Pitzer College. The days they spent at the institution involved  a lot of learning, both for them, with the daily practice of Portuguese, and for others,  as Christopher and Abraham were able to contribute with English classes and share  knowledge of the African Diaspora.  5. Final Considerations W e conclude this text stating that it is inconclusive. Our work has been a path to new  paths, a crossroads, from which we have the right to follow different directions, as long as  these do not lead our children to subjugation, human hierarchization, or devaluation of  life. The purpose of our school – ‘ours’ because it belongs to everyone who dreamed this  dream together with us and even long before us – is to educate our children for cognitive  and social development by valuing and recognizing their different civilizing matrixes and  recognizing that it is the diversity of who we are that builds the material and immaterial  wealth of our people, always developing respect for differences as long as they do not  make us inferior, and valuing and enhancing the plural composition of our collective. Maria Felipa Afro-Brazilian School 143  References Arroyo, M. (2011). Currículo, território em disputa . Petrópolis, RJ: Vozes.  Duseel, E. C. (2005). Europa, modernidade e eurocentrismo. Consejo Latinoamericano de Cien‐ cias Sociales .  Fanon, F. (2008). Pele negra máscaras brancas . T radução de Renato da Silveira. Salvador:  EDUFBA.  Freitas, H. (2016). O Arco e a Arqué : ensaios sobre literatura e cultura. Salvador: Editora Ogum’s.  Gomes, N. L. (2002). T rajetórias escolares, corpo negro e cabelo crespo: reprodução de estereóti‐ pos ou ressignificação cultural? Revista Brasileira de Educação . n. 21, set / dez.  Gomes, N. L. (2017). O movimento negro educador : saberes construídos nas lutas por emanci‐ pação. 1 °Edição. São Paulo: Editora Vozes.  Grosfoguel, R. (2008). Para descolonizar os estudos de economia política e os estudos pós-colo‐ niais: T ransmodernidade, pensamento de fronteira e colonialidade global. Revista Crítica de  Ciências Sociais , 80, 115–147.  Piza, S. de O. & Pansarelli, D. (2012). Sobre a descolonização do conhecimento – a invenção de  outras epistemologias. Estudos de Religião , 26, 25–35.  Santos, B. (2006). de S. A ecologia de saberes. In B. S. Santos (Ed.), A gramática do tempo  (pp. 37– 165). São Paulo: Cortez.  Santos, B. S. & Meneses, M. P. (Orgs). (2010). Epistemologias do Sul . Coimbra: Almedina, CES.  Silva, A. C. da. (2011). A representação social do negro no livro didático : o que mudou? por que  mudou? / Ana Célia da Silva. – Salvador : EDUFBA. 182.  W oodward, K. (2014). Identidade e diferença: uma introdução teórica e conceitual. In T. T.  Silva (Ed.), Identidade e diferença  (pp. 3–72). 15 ed. Petrópolis: Vozes. Part III  Gender and STEMT ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science,  T echnology, and Society  Petra Lucht  1. Introduction Invited to a talk about research on gender in science and technology, I usually start with  the image of a turtle that jumps from a glass bowl. The image of such an impossible jump  serves as an entry point to convey to the audience how impossible it might seem, at first,  to integrate research on gender into science and technology. At the same time, I hope  that the image of such an impossible jump allows the audience to think “outside of the  box” to create new and reimagined perspectives on integrating gender dimensions into  research and development in science and technology.  Changing Perspectives Figure 1: Jumping out of the glass bowl1  In order to carry out research and teaching on gender in science, technology, and society,  I refer to transdiciplinarity as one of the overarching principles or paradigms. For this  first step, it is necessary to leave behind the disciplinary context to which one is accus‐ tomed and in which one has been trained. This paper, then, is an invitation to jump  from one’s own glass bowl – be it science and technology or gender studies. T o conduct  transdisciplinary research that contributes to the scientific field of research on gender in  science and technology, it is necessary to acquire skills both in the scientific and technical  disciplines as well as in research on gender. By jumping from one’s own disciplinary bowl,  over and over again, interand transdisciplinary perspectives on science and technology  are gradually developed and integrated.  1 This image was used for the programme flyer for a symposium at the RWTH Aachen that I co-initiated  in 2011: https://www. rwthaachen. de/ cms/ root/ DieRWTH/ Aktuell/ Pressemitteilungen/ Novem‐ ber/ ∼ddvu/ SymposiumzumThemaGenderindenWissenschaften/ ( June 14, 2020)148 Petra Lucht  In the first part of this paper, three paradigmatic frames are outlined. These include  taxonomies, paradigms, and transdisciplinarity. I refer to these frames when advising  students in teaching and for carrying out research projects. In the second part of this  paper, I present such teaching and research projects as case studies investigating gender  in science, technology, and society. Case studies in teaching were carried out as final  qualifying projects by students in scientific, technological, and planning disciplines who  took part in a new and innovative study programme, Gender Pro MINT2, at T echnische  Universität Berlin. Secondly, I describe a range of research projects currently being car‐ ried out in the team of my Chair in “Gender in STEM and Planning / Feminist Studies  in Science, T echnology and Society”3 at the T echnische Universität Berlin. Both the  teaching projects and the research projects are investigating in science and technology,  including (a) professional / scientific cultures, (b) epistemologies and knowledges, and  (c) artifacts, developments, and possible innovations. The most recent project aims at  investigating (d) possible de-entanglements in science and technology of professional /  scientific cultures; epistemologies, knowledges, and artifacts; and developments and pos‐ sible innovations by establishing reflective and participatory formats. In the conclusion,  I point at implications and consequences of a Declaration of Human Rights in Science  Education informed by expertise in transdisciplinary research on gender in science, tech‐ nology, and society.  2 The certificate study programme Gender Pro MINT was developed by Bärbel Mauß (Mauss, 2017), who  has been coordinating it since its establishment in 2012. The acronym “MINT” stands for “mathematics,  informatics, natural sciences, and technology.” Therefore, it corresponds to the acronym “STEM,”  which stands for “science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.” This study programme is be‐ ing offered exclusively to students in STEM fields by the Zentrum für Interdisziplinäre Frauenund  Geschlechterforschung (ZIFG) (Center for Interdisciplinary W omen’s and Gender Studies) at the TU  Berlin (see http://www. genderpromintzifg. tuberlin. de ). It comprises five modules of up to 30 ECTS:  After completing introductory and in-depth modules, students complete project modules and work on  inquiry-based study projects that constitute the final theses for the certificates of Gender Pro MINT  (cf. Lucht & Mauß, 2015). These final theses in Gender Pro MINT can be carried out as singular  study projects or as integrated parts of qualification theses in the natural sciences, technical sciences,  and planning sciences (bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral theses). The final theses in Gender Pro MINT  extend pre-given tasks from STEM by integrating gender and diversity dimensions into tasks that have  been initially developed in STEM fields. 3 Since August, 2017, I am holding the newly established Chair in “Gender in MINT und Planung /  Feminist Studies in Science, T echnology and Society (Feminist STS)” at the Zentrum für Interdiszi‐ plinäre Frauenund Geschlechterforschung (ZIFG) (Center for Interdisciplinary W omen’s and Gender  Studies) at the T echnische Universität Berlin. For more information, see https://www. stsgenderzifg.  tuberlin. de/ menue/ wwwstsgender_ zifgtu_ berlinde0/ parameter/ en/ T ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society 149  2. T axonomies – Paradigms – T ransdisciplinarity 2.1 T axonomies: Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society In 1995, Evelyn Fox Keller, one of the pioneering scholars in research on gender and  science, suggested dividing this evolving field into a range of different perspectives  (Keller, 1995). In her view, investigating the participation of women* in science differs  profoundly from critical inquiry into how gender is investigated through science and  also how gender is embedded implicitly in scientific knowledge. T o date, similar distinc‐ tions within the field of gender and science have shaped research, politics, and policies:  Reaching gender equity in science, on the one hand, and establishing research on gender  in science, technology, and society, on the other, are viewed as distinct endeavors. The  first endeavor results in policies aimed at reaching gender equity. The second aims at  investigating how gender is configured through historical, social, and cultural processes  that, at the same time, shape the formation of science and technology and their possible  results. However, these two distinct endeavors are also bound together as “twin sisters.”  Research on gender in science and technology translates into gender equity policies.  Conversely, gender equity sheds light on the limits of research on gender in science and  technology, especially when goals of gender equity can’t be reached based on existing  knowledge and require further regulations and policies.  Referring to the German context, I outline which taxonomies have so far been fa‐ vored for carrying out research on gender in relation to science, technology, and society.  These still resemble the distinctions that Keller (1995) described.  Since the 1970s, gender research in the German academic context has evolved mainly  in academic and disciplinary fields of the social sciences and humanities and in cultural  studies such as history, sociology, pedagogy, literature studies, psychology, theology, me‐ dia studies, and economics (cf. Becker & Kortendieck, 2010). Y et research on gender in  science, technology, and society has not reached the status of an academic field – neither  as a subfield in the humanities and social sciences nor as a subfield in the natural sciences,  technology, mathematics, or engineering sciences. This limited status is reflected in the  major handbook on women’s and gender research: While the second edition (Becker  & Kortendiek, 2010) includes several contributions to research on gender in STEM  fields of physics (Götschel, 2010), computer sciences (Bath et al., 2010), mathematics  (Blunck & Pieper-Seier, 2010), biology (Palm, 2010), chemistry (Bauer, 2010), technol‐ ogy (Paulitz, 2010), and engineering (Ihsen, 2010), only three articles on research on  gender in STEM can be found in the third and latest edition of the handbook (Kor‐ tendiek et al., 2019).  Regardless of whether gender studies in science, technology, and society has reached  the status of an academic discipline or subfield, a range of taxonomies have been sug‐ gested. They highlight paradigmatic perspectives or foci of research. Following the dif‐ ferentiation of the field into these focal points, it can be argued that the contours of an 150 Petra Lucht  independent, academic subject area are revealed on the basis of numerous research contri‐ butions. Extending Keller’s (1995) schema to technology, I’d like to suggest a taxonomy  of research on gender in science, technology, and society based on the following areas:  (a) women* in science and technology;  (b) epistemes and knowledges linked to gender in science and technology; and  (c) results and applications linked to gender in science and technology.  In order to more effectively de-entangle the close but mostly implicit connections of  gender with science, technology, and society, we also need to investigate how  (d) de-entanglements of the above research perspectives linked to gender can be achieved.  Research on the situation of women* investigates the historical and current situation of  women in STEM fields. W orks include, for example, historical research on biographies  and on the conditions under which women* have struggled and continue to struggle to  gain access to the professions in science and technology. This research includes inves‐ tigations of processes of socialization as well as the public or stereotypical images of a  given STEM discipline or how a disciplined is portrayed through its curricula, didactics,  or pedagogy. Also, investigating the current professional cultures of STEM disciplines is  viewed as a way forward to analyze and contribute to changes of situation for women in  STEM.  A second overarching perspective highlighted in reviews of the field involves work  addressing the production of knowledges in science and technology, and how this re‐ search may be linked to implicit and explicit connotations and codifications of gender.  Prominent case studies may be found in biology (cf. reviews of Keller, 1995; Palm 2010;  recent conference papers in Palm et al., 2018). In the so-called abstract sciences, such  analyses are rarer. One argument is that explicit notions of gender are not part of the selfunderstanding of disciplines such as physics (Keller, 1995; Götschel, 2010). In physics,  such examples include research on gender in high energy physics (T raweek, 1988) or  thermodynamics (Heinsohn, 2005).  Finally, epistemes on gender manufactured in science and technology leave the ivory  tower; results of research, including implicit and explicit notions, connotations, and  codifications of gender are applied, shaping everyday knowledge as well as everyday  experience. Numerous analyses may be found in the previously mentioned handbook  on women’s and gender studies in the German context (Becker & Kortendiek, 2010;  Kortendiek et al., 2019) and in international contexts (Keller, 1995; Riley et al., 2009;  Schiebinger, 1999 & 2004; W ajcman, 2004; to name just a few). Prominent case studies  from the field have been collected by Schiebinger and Klinge (2013) in an anthology that  has also shaped research policies of the European Union through presentation of paradig‐ matic exemplars of gender research on science and technology (Schiebinger, 2011). T ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society 151  2.2 Co-Existing Paradigms in Research on Gender – Or is ‘Gender’ Vanishing? Research has shown that gender is not (biologically) determined. Rather, it is fabricated  through multiple historical, social, and cultural processes and contexts. Since its estab‐ lishment in the middle of the 20thcentury, research on gender has undergone several  shifts in its research perspectives and foci. In the following, I outline some of these  perspectives that may also be viewed as paradigms in gender studies. These paradigms  co-exist within the current landscape of research on gender, and they allow to focus on  social inequalities related to particular concepts of gender. Here, I sketch some of the  main approaches to research on gender to show its potential variety, without claiming to  present a complete review of the field.  In response to calls from the second wave of the women’s movement, institution‐ alization of research on gender at universities started with the gradual establishment  of women’s studies in the 1970s and 1980s. Emblematic of this shift are paradigmatic  guidelines offered by one of the movement’s pioneers, Maria Mies. She defined women’s  studies through an approach that she called the “methodological postulates for women’s  studies” (Mies, 1983), demanding an epistemological shift that could be reached through  “research by women with women and for women.” In the process of establishing more  research projects and of producing results on the conditions and fabrications of women’s  lives, a first shift took place. Research investigated the fabrication of relations between  women and men, while taking these relations no longer as predetermined and fixed. Such  research on gender was called “gender studies” rather than “women’s studies.” With this  shift in the 1980s, a distinction between “sex” and “gender” also gained currency, since  it proved productive for analyses of fabrications of gender through historical, societal,  and cultural contexts without relating these fabrications directly to assumed sex differ‐ ences from biology or medicine. However, beginning in the 1990s, this distinction was  criticized as misleading when examined in the light of pre-existing dualistic assumptions  about gender. Butler’s prominent monograph Gender Trouble  (1990) proposed that the  very distinction between “sex” and “gender” needs to be questioned. The construction  of sex was analyzed, to a large extent, as a result of recurring processes of discourses on  heteronormativity.4 In light of this approach, interactionist approaches in research on  gender gained momentum; these investigated “doing gender” as part of all performative  practices that stabilize heteronormative societal structures. Recently, the notion that sex  and gender should not be viewed as oppositions or structured in binary categories – “sex”  is not structured as “female versus male” and “gender” is not structured as “feminine  versus masculine” – has been manifested through laws in several nations worldwide. In  4 In the German context, Gildemeister and W etterer (1992, pp. 205) pointed out a danger and, at the same  time, a false belief in a mimetic analogy of “sex” and “gender.” The dualism of biology, on the one hand,  and history, society, and culture, on the other, is in itself part of the dualisms that stabilized the actual  structure of gender. As a result, “sex” is viewed as non-binary and changeable over time.152 Petra Lucht  the German context, a “third option” was established that demands that “intersexuality”  as well as “transgender” be allowed and placed by law under the umbrella of a “third  option” (Bundesverfassungsgericht, 2017).  In Germany, one recent, prominent shift in foci of gender research took place during  the first decade of the 21stcentury, namely with the gradual integration of “intersection‐ ality,” a term coined by Kimberlé Crenshaw (1989). Taking up Black feminism, Cren‐ shaw investigated lawsuits within the context of affirmative action during the 1980s in  the United States. Based on her analyses, she suggested that the discrimination against  black women needs to be understood as an interplay of sexual and racial discrimination.  The metaphor of an intersection of streets is used by Crenshaw to suggest that sexual  and racial discrimination should be understood neither as independent of each other nor  as cumulative. Rather, both forms of discrimination intersect. Therefore, black women  experience structural discrimination at the intersections of race and gender.  The transfer and integration of intersectionality to the German context was debated  vigorously at first. Some questioned to what an extent intersectionality should be viewed  as a new paradigm and to what extent concepts developed in the U.S. context could be  transferred to the German context (Knapp, 2005). Among others, Katharina W algen‐ bach (2007) took up the challenge to re-contextualize the intersectional approach for the  German context. She offered a framework for reflecting on the transfer of intersectional‐ ity into German debates in gender studies through (1) inclusion of women’s movements  in Germany and (2) discussions of a range of intersectional approaches. Based on this  work, W algenbach suggested that gender should be viewed as an “interdependent” cate‐ gory rather than an intersectional one. With interdependence, W algenbach focuses both  on the “mutual dependence of social categories” and on “inner-categorial interdepen‐ dence” (W algenbach, 2007, p. 61). Finally, W algenbach concludes that (3) gender as an  interdependent category needs to be re-invented for each research project, re-designing  the architecture that serves as analytical tool to investigate gender as an interdependent  category.5 W algenbach (2013) takes up the criticism that the concept of intersectionality  unintentionally plays into the hands of a levelling of power relations.6  5 Although I am in favor of the concept of interdependency over that of intersectionality, this shift in ter‐ minology has not prevailed in the debates on “intersectionality research” in gender studies. W algenbach  (2013) herself shares this assessment. Therefore, I subsume W algenbach’s work under the umbrella of  intersectional approaches in gender studies. 6 W algenbach (2007) points out, for example, that queer interventions in debates on gender studies and  the possibility of connecting different strands of theory in queer studies may have taken place but, at the  same time, could be relativized or suppressed again in debates on intersectionality. At the same time, she  comments on the constitution of current gender orders by means of heteronormativity (W algenbach,  2007, p. 41, with reference to Hark, 2005, among others). Also, Dietze et al. (2007) elaborate on this  objection to intersectionality research in detail, thereby anchoring historical and current references  between intersectionality research and queer theory in these discourses. In addition, “intersectionality”  entails the risk of levelling power structures that where the very reason of the invention of intersec‐T ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society 153  More recently, another approach has become prominent in research on gender in sci‐ ence and technology, namely aligned with “new materialism.” This is supported through,  for example, funding of “COST Action IS1307 – New Materialism: Networking Euro‐ pean Scholarship on ‘How Matter Comes to Matter’” by the European Commission,7  a recent conference on gender studies in the German context (Palm et al., 2018) that  called extensively for papers that contribute to this branch of research and by the most  recent handbook on interdisciplinary gender studies in the German context (Kallmeyer,  2019). At the same time, branches of research that focus on global power structures in  connection with gender research in science and technology are also part of the picture in  the German context, as portrayed and mapped out in the handbook on interdisciplinary  gender research (Kortendiek et al., 2019) mentioned before. T o pick two perspectives  among several, I’d like to mention here the contributions of ecofeminism (cf. summa‐ rized in Bauhardt, 2019) and postcolonialism (cf. Harding, 2019).  2.3 T ransdisciplinarity Research on Gender in Science, T echnology and Society In my paper, I restrict the interpretation of transdisciplinarity to two meanings in order  to highlight the place of research on gender in science, technology and society. T o explain  these two meanings, I refer to Figure 2.  The first meaning of “transdisciplinarity” that I want to point to understands it  as “cross-disciplinarity” between the so-called “two cultures” within academia. In the  Figure 2: Transdisciplinarity of Science, T echnology and Society  tionality by Crenshaw: namely, to analyse structural, racist discrimination (Gutiérrez Rodríguez, 2011).  My own reception of W algenbach’s suggestion to establish gender as an interdependent category can be  found in Lucht (2014), Lucht (2017), and Lucht (2018). 7 https://newmaterialism. eu/ (14. 6. 2020)154 Petra Lucht  inner circle the STEM disciplines are located. These diciplines include physics, math‐ ematics, informatics, engineering, chemistry, and biology, and are subsumed under the  “culture” of science and technology. Historically, gender studies have been developed  and established as part of a second “culture,” located in this figure in the outer circle  of academia, which includes the humanities, social sciences, psychology, literature, phi‐ losophy, cultural studies, educational sciences, and economics. However, gender studies  in academia are often perceived as “peninsulas” even within these disciplines. Therefore,  I place gender studies in “eclipses” in the outer green circle. Still missing is an integration  of gender studies within the disciplines in the green circle, and particularly within the  STEM disciplines in the inner circle. Although one might argue that gender equity  policies have been established for science, technology, and society, inclusion of research  on gender in approaches to scientific research and technological development has almost  not taken place at all. 8  A second meaning of transdisciplinarity surfaced increasingly toward the turn of  the 21stcentury and is related to the so-called “Grand Challenges” that global society  faces in current times (Hadorn et al., 2008). In this sense, transdisciplinarity points to  a crossing of boundaries between academia, on one hand, and society and practice, on  the other, while aiming at solving real-world challenges such as globalization, securing a  sustainable future, dealing with digitalization of society, or preventing and or managing  climate change. Both meanings of transdisciplinarity require integration of a range of  paradigms in science and technology inherent to particular disciplines. Crossing bound‐ aries between multi-paradigmatic gender studies and science and technology presents  many challenges to academia and to society since real-world problems need to be solved  in ways that include gender-just perspectives. Integrating gender as an interdependent  category in transdiciplinary research requires integration of its internal “architecture”  (W algenbach, 2007) into research design for technological development. The need to  transform established approaches might be addressed during scientific research and / or  technological development. As a consequence, transdisciplinary research and develop‐ ment that includes gender studies perspectives may result in transformative knowledge  about given problems – knowledge that includes the gender dimensions of problems or  Grand Challenges for which solutions are being sought.  8 T o make this more concrete, I’d like to point out that in the German context only about 12 professor‐ ships on Gender Studies in STEM can be found in academia. Only two thirds of these professorships  are permanent ones, and about two third of them are to be found at universities. Currently, not one  permanent professorship can be found at a technical university in the German context. (Source: Daten‐ bank des Margherita-von-Brentano-Zentrums (2020), Freie Universität Berlin, https://www. mvbz. org/  genderprofessuren , January 22, 2020)T ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society 155  3. De-Entangling Gender from Science, T echnology, and Planning  Through T ransdisciplinary Research at the Chair in “Feminist Studies in  Science, T echnology and Society” Following Winner (1980) and the adaption of Bath (2009), two overarching questions  lead research and research-based teaching projects on gender at the Chair in “Gender  in STEM and Planning / Feminist Studies in Science, T echnology and Society (Feminist  STS)” with respect to investigations into the fabrication of gender (Lucht, 2014, 2017,  & 2018):  (1) Do (a) professional / scientific cultures, (b) epistemologies and knowledges, as well  as (c) technological artifacts and developments have intersectional gender politics?  (2) How and to what an extent are (a) professional / scientific cultures, (b) epistemolo‐ gies and knowledges, and, finally, (c) technological artifacts and developments en‐ tangled? How may possible de-entanglements be investigated?  Figure 3 below illustrates programmatic research and teaching programmes at my Chair.  Three distinct perspectives in research and teaching are covered: (a) professional / sci‐ entific cultures in science and technology, (b) epistemologies and knowledges on gender,  and (c) technological artifacts and developments. T ransdisciplinary approaches in gender  research on science, technology, and society are being developed that aim at fostering a  gender-just and diversity-just everyday life-world in a globalized, pluralistic society. In  the following, I present projects of research-based teaching (2.1) and on research (2.2.)  on gender at my Chair.  3.1 Research-Based T eaching Projects in the Study Programme  “Gender Pro MINT” at TU Berlin Against the background of schemas outlined in Section 1.1, the examples of researchbased teaching projects outlined below relate to investigations of (a) professional, sci‐ entific cultures, (b) epistemologies and knowledges, and (c) technological artifacts and  developments. These projects were carried out in modules for the certificate study pro‐ gram “Gender Pro MINT” (GPM) that I advised at the T echnische Universität Berlin  between 2013 and 2015 (cf. Lucht 2014, 2017, 2018; Lucht & Mauss, 2015).  3.1.1 Professional, Scientific Cultures In recent decades, many measures have been taken to reduce structural barriers for  women* in STEM disciplines and in planning. However, becoming a member of an  academic discipline or a professional field is not only formally but also informally signif‐ icantly influenced by unwritten rules in everyday practice. In order to further investigate  the persistence of social inequality, it is necessary to look more closely at these informal 156 Petra Lucht  mechanisms of inclusion and exclusion. The following two projects in the field of engi‐ neering and in urban gardening have adopted this research perspective.  The work world of female engineers in mechanical engineering is still considered a  male-coded domain. Lisa Henrichs, a mechanical engineering student, wrote her bach‐ elor thesis on her experiences at a medium-sized company at which she contributed to  quality assurance of materials at the test bench. Henrichs (2015) retrospectively identi‐ fied forms of masculinity that shaped everyday practice in this professional environment.  Following Faulkner (2008), Henrichs used interviews and participant observations to  develop practice-oriented typifications for the creation of professional identities in  engineering (such as the technician or the problem solver) as well as theory-oriented  typifications (such as the manager or the project leader). Based on this example, Henrichs  assigned a “somewhat gender-neutral” identity to quality assurance in engineering and  pleaded for shifts in the symbolic structure of femininity and masculinity in engineering  in order to realize gender justice.  “Are gardens gender-coded and queer places?” asked T oni Karge with reference to his  diploma thesis (Karge, 2016) in urban and regional planning. He pointed out that in the  everyday practice of an urban garden project, gender-segregated task divisions had been  established in the course of development and maintenance of the project. Female team  members were mainly responsible for project coordination, marketing, contact manage‐ ment, and the coordination of cooking and baking activities, while male team members  Figure 3: Transdisciplinary research on ‘gender’ in science, technology and  society (Lucht, 2017) T ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society 157  were responsible for construction and technical tasks (cf. Karge, 2015, p. 21). In contrast,  the double conception of the garden as a “community garden and as a leasehold garden”  was interpreted as transgressing classical, gendered divisions of labor in production and  reproduction (cf. Karge, 2015, p. 22). Karge’s analysis thus points to current simultane‐ ities of re-traditionalization and de-traditionalization of gendered societal orders. These  simultaneities might open up possibilities for shifting divisions of labor and gender segre‐ gation in production and reproduction toward more gender-just societal structures.  3.1.2 Knowledges on Gender in Science, T echnology, and Planning Sciences Gender studies on knowledge in the natural, technical, and planning sciences have re‐ peatedly shown that, although dualistically-coded knowledges are organized flexibly in  terms of history and context, dualistically-coded gendered orders are also legitimized  in recurring ways with reference to these very knowledges (cf. Lucht & Paulitz, 2008).  Following from Angela McRobbie (2010) among others, it can be argued that we must  currently speak of a “simultaneity of non-simultaneity” with regard to gender-coded  dichotomies (i.e., that gender-coded dichotomies are changed, but nevertheless re-sta‐ bilized). These shifts are also taking place in the professional and everyday life-worlds of  the natural, technical, and planning sciences. Femininity is included in these professional  and life-worlds, but at the price of de-thematizing the associated re-stabilization of gen‐ der hierarchies in a “new guise.” The research projects described below are examples of  studies on the stock of knowledge in the natural, technical, and planning sciences that  point to this simultaneity of non-simultaneity.  Max Metzger and Franziska Kaiser (Metzger & Kaiser, 2015) analysed the documen‐ tary film Thin Ice  about the climate sciences. The analysis showed that the media pro‐ duction of actors, laboratories, everyday practices, narratives, and conceptions of nature  represented a mixed-gender scientific community. However, the analytical knowledge  about climate change is portrayed in this film as being conveyed exclusively by malesocialized climate scientists. Thus, epistemic authority is coded as masculine in this  documentary film.  How is it possible not to reify (gender-)stereotypical ideas of childhood in the (urban)  planning process? In a master’s thesis in landscape architecture, Regina Otters (2015) ex‐ plored this question using the example of “nature experience areas” (NER) for children in  the city, and subsequently developed an open, participatory space design. Otters pointed  out that NER concepts do not include epistemological reflections of the concepts of  “space,” “nature,” and “childhood” – as well as their mutual entanglements. Thus, the  social conditionality of the later concepts is not portrayed in the concept of NER. As  a consequence, NER do not offer space for the design of play but only for gendered  stereotypical portrayals of childhood and nature.  Melanie Irrgang (2014, 2015) investigated the gendering of concepts of violence  in the development of algorithms in semantic search, a sub-area of computer science. 158 Petra Lucht  Clarifying the technical possibilities and limits of such a technology and showing that  gender-coded concepts of violence are included in software development for semantic  search, Irrgang (2015, p. 32) sums up:  Thus, male perpetrator-victim contexts in particular are reproduced in war-like settings,  while domestic violence, which mostly happens to women, remains invisible. Violence is also  reduced to physical violence regardless of the context of an action. Furthermore, sexualized,  structural, and psychological violence and neglect were not operationalized as further forms  of violence by means of the semantic search to be developed.  This represents an example of a technological development in the course of which  gender-coded concepts of violence were inscribed in artifacts developed through com‐ puter science, stabilized beyond social and political negotiation processes, while omitting  knowledge of concepts of violence that have been extensively investigated in research on  gender in relation to concepts of violence.  3.1.3 T echnological Artifacts and Developments The following case studies in research-based teaching show that gendered stereotypes are  also entangled in technological artifacts, technological development, and spatial plan‐ ning. In addition, suggestions are made as to how, in contrast, gender-equitable diversity  could be enabled for use and appropriation in technology and planning.  The digital media upheaval has, so far, hardly reached music lessons in schools. This  observation motivated Christof Schultz and Marten Seedorf (Schultz & Seedorf, 2016)  to develop an open-source ensemble loop in their master’s thesis in audio communica‐ tion. Firstly, students were involved in the partially participatory development of this  technology. Secondly, the development of the loop reflected gender and diversity aspects,  referring to Maaß, Draude, and W ajda (2014) (see Schultz & Seedorf, 2016). The authors  took up these questions to achieve a systematic integration of gender and diversity per‐ spectives into a given procedure or procedural model in computer science. In this way,  Schultz and Seedorf addressed – and partially avoided at early stages in their own work –  stereotypical use of gendered attributions in tonality and hierarchization of instruments  of the ensemble.  Retrospectively, Mareike Okrafka analysed a study project from the field of medical  technology that aimed to develop dynamic seat shells for wheelchairs to be used by  cerebrally paralysed children. Okrafka (2015) developed the following questions, among  others:  – How did it come about that therapists and not patients – as initially intended – were  involved in the participatory development of the technology?  – Are gains in autonomy achieved for users of this technology?  Thus, development of a technological artifact was comprehensively explored from a  gender and diversity perspective. T ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society 159  Anne Miersch (2015), a student in landscape architecture and gender studies, in‐ vestigated design of playgrounds in an interdisciplinary master’s thesis. Through an  exploratory comparison of the design of playgrounds in Berlin in the 1950s and the  2000s, Miersch pointed out that planning of play and sports areas in the 1950s was  motivated by stereotypical and binary gender concepts. Y et current playground concepts  are no exception, as they, too, are increasingly designed in accordance with gender main‐ streaming that still refers to binary concepts of gender. Miersch advocates non-binary,  genderand diversity-friendly designs (cf. Miersch, 2015, p. 30) that open a wide range of  possibilities for appropriating space. As an example, she developed a concept for a queerfeminist inspired playground entitled “Performance – The T ravesty of the Square.”  In relation to these research-based teaching projects, I would like to echo Miersch’s  (2015) plea for gender and diversity-friendly approaches in science, technology, and  planning: In order to promote gender-just and diversity-just development and use of  technological artifacts as well as project planning, participatory approaches should be  followed. In addition, potential stereotyping in these approaches needs to be countered  through reflection that takes into account the results of research on gender.  3.2 Research Projects 3.2.1 Professional Cultures: Investigations of Physics and Computer Science Franziska Kaiser and Andrea Bossmann aim to expand research on the professional  culture of physics from an intersectional perspective. Their project “Intersections of  ethnicity, gender, and sexual identity: Case studies to investigate the culture of physics  in Germany” 9 consists of two subprojects combining approaches from higher educa‐ tion studies, gender, migration, and queer studies. Kaiser investigates discrimination in  physics based on (assumed) ancestry / origin and focuses on the experiences of female  physicists who have a history of migration. Andrea Bossmann investigates the experi‐ ences of queer physicists. Both interview physicists at universities and research institutes  in Germany. The interviewees’ experiences will be the basis for an analysis of how gender  is created and performed within the culture of physics from a differentiated point of  view. So far, these research perspectives have not been considered much in research on  the professional culture of physics in Germany. Additionally, the project aims to raise  awareness on topics of inclusion and diversity in the physics community.  The professional culture of computer science is investigated by Judith Schütze in  the research project “Participation and computer science: An investigation of the sub‐ ject culture of computer science within the framework of a participatory educational  9 This project has been funded by the doctoral seed funding program at T echnische Universität Berlin  (10/2019–03/2020): https://www. stsgenderzifg. tuberlin. de/ menue/ forschung_ research/ fachkul‐ turforschung_ zur_ physik/ parameter/ en/ ( June 21, 2020)160 Petra Lucht  research project with a special focus on female students of computer science.” 10 That  girls* and women* are underrepresented in computer science is confirmed by personal  experience and by a multitude of figures and statistics in reports. Computer science and  the associated information and communication technologies are professional fields of  great relevance, since they increasingly shape areas of everyday life. The low presence of  women* in computer science leads to the assumption that there are, at best, only limited  career opportunities for women* in information technology. Judith Schütze aims to  investigate and to counteract the under-representation of women* in computer science.  The interdisciplinary framework includes (1) educational research, (2) cultural research,  as well as (3) participatory research as the underlying approaches.  3.2.2 Fabrications of Gender Through References to Scientific Knowledges In her master’s project “Semantics of the gendered body at the International Olympic  Committee’s Medical Commission between 1967 and 1972,” Émilie Filion-Donato ex‐ plored the decision-making processes of the International Olympic Committee (IOC)  with regards to the selection of tests chosen to verify athlete sex. 11 In the thesis, gender  testing is placed in the historical context of various classifications of the body that  biomedical and social sciences have put forward. A subsequent content analysis is car‐ ried out on the minutes, correspondence, and studies read by the Medical Commission  between 1967 and 1972. It portrays discourse on the gendered body with respect to its  discursive architecture and its relations to discourses in the biomedical sciences. The re‐ search raises epistemological questions that pertain to relationships between knowledge,  decision making, and action, with a particular interest in how decisions are made in the  face of doubt.  In her interand transdisciplinary postdoctoral research, Sahra Dornick investigates  knowledges of relationality. As such, she is interested in onto-epistemologies of entan‐ glements, and works on a range of projects on sustainability, care, and diversity. 12 Her  work relies on approaches from literature, sociology, arts, gender studies, and science and  technology studies. With her research, she aims to open up new perspectives for cohab‐ itation and possibilities for alternative ways of being. In her study “T owards a utopian  society: Relationality in the works of Judith Butler, Sara Ahmed, and Édouard Glissant”  (Dornick, 2019), she explores the possibilities of queer and postcolonial understandings  of relationality for imagining future societies. In her work on sustainability and diversity  in engineering, she analyses how care – in Maria Puig de la Bellacasa’s understanding  10 See: https://www. stsgenderzifg. tuberlin. de/ menue/ forschung_ research/ parameter/ en/  11 See: https://www. stsgenderzifg. tuberlin. de/ menue/ teaching/ betreute_ qualifikationsarbeiten/ param‐ eter/ en/ (December 6, 2020) 12 See: https://www. stsgenderzifg. tuberlin. de/ menue/ team/ sahra_ dornick/ parameter/ en/ (Decem‐ ber 6, 2020)T ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society 161  as “caring for human and more-than-humans” – can be a useful frame for deeper un‐ derstanding of diversity issues in engineering. Recently, she started a study 13 on the  creation of online teaching in care. Here, she aims to explore possibilities, disruptions,  and displacements for / of diversity issues that occur in the process of shifting teaching  from personal interactions to generalized online units.  3.2.3 Artifacts and T echnological Developments and Possible Innovations Over the last decade, the development of sex dolls equipped with AI has made dramatic  progress. It seems clear, now, that in the medium term, sex robots might fundamentally  change sexual behaviors and disrupt traditional dichotomies like man / woman, man /  machine, nature / culture, etc. In her postdoctoral research “Living and Loving with  Robots,” 14 Tanja Kubes examines the conception and design of sex robots from a queerfeminist, neomaterialist, and critical-posthumanist perspective (cf. Kubes, 2019). Build‐ ing upon discourse analysis and qualitative empirical research, the study explores sex  robots from a sociological, philosophical, and anthropological point of view and discusses  the chances and dangers of extending sociality to machines. Kubes argues that by moving  beyond hegemonic and heteronormative objectivations in their design, queerand diver‐ sity-sensitive sex robots may actually inspire optimism about sextech’s role in opening up  new spheres of post-human relationships and, thus, broaden our erotic futures.  Currently, online tools for learning and teaching are increasingly being integrated  into education at all levels. But how can these tools be developed in ways that acknowl‐ edge necessities of heterogeneous target groups of learners, teachers, and practitioners?  The work at the Chair on investigating technological artifacts most recently included  a new research project on digital competencies as part of the educational training of  future careworkers. As part of the joint project “Digitale Akademie Pflege 4.0 (DAPF  4.0): Digitale Kompetenzen für die generalistische Pflege(aus)bildung” 15 (“Digital Nurs‐ ing Academy 4.0 (DAPF 4.0): Digital skills for the generalist nursing education”), the  13 This study is related to the joint project “Digitale Akademie Pflege 4.0 (DAPF 4.0): Digitale Kompe‐ tenzen für die generalistische Pflege(aus)bildung” (“Digital Nursing Academy 4.0 (DAPF 4.0): Digital  skills for the generalist nursing education”). See footnote 15 . 14 The research of Dr. Tanja Kubes is funded by the TU Berlin’s postdoctoral sponsorship program (02– 07/2020) and by the city of Berlin’s joint program DiGiTal – Digitization: Design and T ransformation  (08–12/2021). 15 The joint project DAPF 4.0 is funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (Bundesmin‐ istrerium für Bildung und Forschung, BMBF) in the funding line “Digital media in vocational training  in the health care professions (DigiMed)” (05/2020–04/2023) (FKZ: 01PG20004). Partners of the  joint project “Digitale Akademie Pflege 4.0 (DAPF 4.0): Digitale Kompetenzen für die generalistische  Pflege(aus)bildung” (“Digital Nursing Academy 4.0 (DAPF 4.0): Digital skills for the generalist nursing  education”) are the FrauenComputerZentrumBerlin e. V. (FCZB e. V.) (coordinator), Berlin School of  Economics and Law (HWR Berlin, Prof. Dr. Heike Wiesner) and nursing schools in the Berlin-Potsdam  metropolitan region.162 Petra Lucht  Chair of Feminist STS at TU Berlin will be responsible for the subproject “Participatory  evaluation.” The project “Digital Nursing Academy 4.0” will be developed together with  nursing schools in the Berlin-Potsdam metropolitan region.  2.2.4 T ransdisciplinary Research on Gender in Science, T echnology, and Society In order to develop solutions for global challenges, science and technology should be  organized in a more transdisciplinary way. Also, a greater diversity of scientific and  technological professional cultures ought to be achieved. In the debates on how to ensure  social cohesion, scientific and technological developments are perceived as co-responsi‐ ble for key societal problems. Simultaneously, their contributions to the analyses and  solutions of these problems is demanded. By fostering transdisciplinarity and diversity,  societal challenges can be linked more closely to problems that are being driven by science  and technology. These are the central objectives of the joint project “Social Cohesion as  a Challenge for the Formation of Science and T echnology” of an interdisciplinary group  of researchers from the natural sciences, computer sciences, and science and technology  studies with a focus on gender and diversity research that is guiding future research  projects. The aims of this project are intertwined. Participatory formats are sought that  contribute to a more diverse community of learners and practioners in science and tech‐ nology. T ransdiciplinary reflection forums are established within research institutions  that foster inclusion of gender and diversity dimensions into scientific knowledges and  developments of technologies that refect a plural society. The Chair in “Feminist Studies  in Science, T echnology and Society” is part of this group and will focus on technological  developments in the area of digitization. 16  4. Conclusion In the first part of this paper, I outlined a programmatic matrix that links three areas  of research and teaching: (1) taxonomies of research on gender in science, technology,  and society, (2) research paradigms in gender studies, and (3) transdisciplinarity. Until  today, gender studies in academia has been established in correspondence with feminist  movements beginning in the second half of the 20thcentury. Referring to reviews in the  area of research on gender in science, technology, and society, I presented a taxonomy  16 This project is funded by the Berlin University Alliance (BUA) as part of the initiative “Social Cohesion”  (11/2019–12/2020), funding reference no. GC _ SC _ PC _ 33. The Berlin University Alliance (BUA) is  funded as a group in the Universities of Excellence funding line of the German government’s Excellence  Strategy, see: https://www. berlinuniversityalliance. de/ en/ excellencestrategy/ index. html . Further  information on this project may be found here: https://www. stsgenderzifg. tuberlin. de/ menue/  forschung/ gesellschaftlicher_ zusammenhalt_ als_ herausforderung_ der_ wissenschafts_ und_ technolo‐ giegestaltung/ parameter/ en/ T ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society 163  of the field that divides research into three areas: (a) research on professional cultures  in science and technology, (b) research on epistemologies and knowledges of gender in  science and technology, and (c) research on technological artifacts and technological  developments in science and technology. Over time, these areas of research on gender  have been approached from a range of perspectives and paradigms from gender studies.  These paradigms are associated with a shifting terminology over recent decades. In my  paper, I could only briefly touch upon women’s studies, gender research, gender studies,  queer studies, disability studies, intersectionality, new materialism, ecofeminism, and  postcolonial studies. The category “gender,” for that matter, is not a pre-existing entity.  Rather gender is a temporary fabrication – a result of historical, social, and political  processes. In this paper, I refer to two meanings of transdisciplinarity. The first views  transdisciplinary research as transgressing differences between the so-called “two cul‐ tures” within academia. The second views transdisciplinary research as transgressing  academia and the Grand Challenges. This second understanding of transdisciplinary  research is linked to the aim of solving problems that cannot be solved by academia alone.  In light of these two meanings of transdisciplinarity, I looked at the place of gender  studies in relation to academia and to the Grand Challenges. Despite development of  a broad range of paradigms over the last five decades, gender studies are still mostly  located outside of the disciplines in science and technology, namely the STEM fields.  Also, gender studies may still be viewed as peninsulas in the culture of social sciences and  humanities. In addition, gender studies perspectives are mostly missing when solutions  for today’s Grand Challenges are sought. In the second part of this paper, I offered  examples of research-based teaching on gender and research projects on gender in science,  technology, and society that have been carried out or that are currently being undertaken  at my professorship in “Gender in STEM and Planning / Feminist Studies in Science,  T echnology and Society (Feminist STS)” at the T echnische Universität Berlin.  T o what end must we include competencies in research on gender in curricula as  well as in research and development of STEM and in planning disciplines? Integrating  research on gender into research and development in STEM fields and planning sheds  light on fabrications of gender in STEM and how these fabrications partly shape every‐ day knowledge and life in society. It is necessary to integrate such knowledge into the  curricula of STEM and planning disciplines to enable future generations of scienctists  and engineers to consider and evaluate suggested transdisciplinary solutions to Grand  Challenges in light of research on gender. Only then can we aspire a sustainable future  that will also become a gender-just future. 164 Petra Lucht  References Bath, C. (2009). De-Gendering informatischer Artefakte. Grundlagen einer kritisch-feministischen  T echnikgestaltung . Universität Bremen. Retrieved from https://elib. suub. unibremen. de/ e docs/ 001027411. pdf (28. 08. 2018).  Bath, C., Schelhowe, H. & Wiesner, H. (2010). Informatik: Geschlechteraspekte einer technis‐ chen Disziplin. In R. Becker & B. Kortendiek (Eds.): Handbuch Frauenund Geschlechter‐ forschung . 3rded., VS-Verlag, Wiesbaden, pp. 829–841. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783531 919720_ 99 .  Bauer, R. (2010). Chemie: Das Geschlecht des Labors – Geschlechterverhältnisse und -vorstel‐ lungen in chemischen Verbindungen und Reaktionen. In R. Becker & B. Kortendiek (Eds.):  Handbuch Frauenund Geschlechterforschung . 3rded., VS-Verlag, Wiesbaden, pp. 860–866.  https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783531919720_ 102 .  Bauhardt, C. (2019). Ökofeminismus und Queer Ecologies: feministische Analyse gesellschaft‐ licher Naturverhältnisse. In B. Kortendiek, B. Riegraf & K. Sabisch (Eds.): Handbuch In‐ terdisziplinäre Geschlechterforschung. Geschlecht und Gesellschaft , vol. 65. Springer VS, Wies‐ baden. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783658125004_ 1593  Becker, R. & Kortendiek, B. (Eds.). (2010). Handbuch Frauenund Geschlechterforschung . 3rd ed., VS-Verlag, Wiesbaden. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783531919720 .  Blunck, A. & Pieper-Seier, I. (2010). Mathematik: Genderforschung auf schwierigem T errain .  In R. Becker & B. Kortendiek (Eds.): Handbuch Frauenund Geschlechterforschung . 3rded.,  VS-Verlag, Wiesbaden, pp. 820–828.  Bundesverfassungsgericht 2017 (BVerfG 2017). Beschluss des Ersten Senats vom 10. Okto‐ ber 2017-1 BvR 2019/16 , Rn. 1–69. Retrieved from http://www. bverfg. de/ e/ rs20171010_  1bvr201916. html (14. 06. 2020).  Butler, J. (1990). Gender Trouble. Feminism and the Subversion of Identity . New Y ork: Rout‐ ledge.  COST Action IS1307. New Materialism: Networking European Scholarship on ‘How Matter  Comes to Matter’ . Retrieved from https://newmaterialism. eu/  Crenshaw, K. (1989). Demarginalizing the Intersection of Race and Sex: A Black Feminist Cri‐ tique of Antidiscrimination Doctrine, Feminist Theory and Antiracist Politics.  The University  of Chicago Legal Forum, pp. 139–167.  Deutscher Ingenieurinnenbund (dib e. V.) (Ed.). Gender Pro MINT . Die Ingenieurin 3/2015  (114).  Dietze, G., Haschemi Y ekani, E. & Michaelis, B. (2007). Checks and Balances. Zum Verhältnis  von Intersektionalität und Queer Theory. In K. W algenbach, G. Dietze, A. Hornscheidt & K.  Palm (Eds.): Gender als interdependente Kategorie. Neue Perspektiven auf Intersektionalität,  Diversität und Heterogenität,  pp. 107–139. Opladen & Farmington Hills: Verlag Barbara  Budrich.  Dornick, S. (2019). Auf dem W eg zur utopischen Gesellschaft – Relationalität bei Judith Butler,  Sara Ahmed und Édouard Glissant. In Femina Politica (Ed.): Her mit der Zukunft?! Feminis‐ tische und queere Utopien und die Suche nach alternativen Gesellschaftsformen . Zeitschrift für  feministische Politikwissenschaft. Vol. 1/2019, pp. 46–58.  Faulkner, W. (2008). The Gender(s) of ‘Real’ Engineers. Journeys Around the T echnical / Social  Dualism. In P. Lucht & T. Paulitz (Eds.): Recodierungen des Wissens. Stand und Perspektiven  der Geschlechterforschung in Naturwissenschaften und T echnik . Frankfurt am Main: Campus  Verlag, pp. 141–155. T ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society 165  Gildemeister, R. & W etterer, A. (1992). Wie Geschlechter gemacht werden. Die Soziale Kon‐ struktion und ihre Reifizierung in der Frauenforschung. In G.-A. Knapp & A. W etterer  (Eds.): TraditionenBrüche. Entwicklungen feministischer Theorie . Freiburg i. Br.: Kore Verlag,  pp. 201–254.  Götschel, H. (2010). Physik: Gender goes Physical – Geschlechterverhältnisse, Geschlechter‐ vorstellungen und die Erscheinungen der unbelebten Natur. In R. Becker & B. Kortendiek  (Eds.): Handbuch Frauenund Geschlechterforschung . 3rded., VS-Verlag, Wiesbaden, pp. 842– 850.  Gutiérrez Rodríguez, E. (2011). Intersektionalität oder Wie nicht über Rassismus sprechen. In  S. Hess, N. Langreiter & E. Timm (Eds.): Intersektionalität revisited. Empirische, theoretische  und methodische Erkundungen . Bielefeld: transcript, pp. 77–100.  Hark, S. (2005). Dissidente Partizipation. Eine Diskursgeschichte des Feminismus . Frankfurt am  Main: Suhrkamp Verlag.  Heinsohn, D. (2005). Physikalisches Wissen im Geschlechterdiskurs. Thermodynamik und  Frauenstudium um 1900 . Frankfurt / New Y ork: Campus Verlag.  Henrichs, L. (2015). Auf dem Prüfstand. Eine retrospektive Genderanalyse der Qualitätssicherung .  Die Ingenieurin 3/2015 (114), pp. 25–27.  Hirsch Hadorn, G., Hoffmann-Riem, H., Biber-Klemm, S., Grossenbacher-Mansuy, W., Joye,  D., Pohl, C., Wiesmann, U. & Zemp, E. (Eds.). (2008): Handbook of Transdisciplinary Re‐ search . Springer, pp. 19–39.  Ihsen, S. (2010). Ingenieurinnen. Frauen in einer Männerdomäne . In R. Becker & B. Kortendiek  (Eds.): Handbuch Frauenund Geschlechterforschung , 3rded. VS-Verlag, Wiesbaden, pp. 799– 805. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783531919720_ 96 .  Irrgang, M. (2014). W as ist Gewalt und wie heißt er? Semantische Gewalterkennung aus Sicht  der Gender Studies. In N. Marsden & U. Kempf (Ed.): GENDER-UseIT . HCI, Usability  und UX unter Gendergesichtspunkten . München: De Gruyter Verlag / Oldenbourg Verlag,  pp. 113–123. https://doi. org/ 10. 1515/ 9783110363227 .  Irrgang, M. (2015a). Schöne neue W elt. Gewalt widerfährt nur noch ‘Männern’  Die Ingenieurin  3/2015 (114), pp. 32–33.  Kallmeyer, M. (2019). New Materialism: neue Materialitätskonzepte für die Gender Studies . In  B. Kortendiek et al. (Eds.): Handbuch Interdisziplinäre Geschlechterforschung Geschlecht und  Gesellschaft . https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783658124960_ 40  Karge, T. (2015). Hat Gartenarbeit ein Geschlecht? Genderaspekte urbaner Gemeinschaftsgärten .  Die Ingenieurin 3/2015 (114), pp. 20–22.  Karge, T. (2016). Neue Urbane Landwirtschaft. Eine theoretische Verortung und Akteursanal‐ yse der Initiative Himmelbeet im Berliner W edding. In: Arbeitshefte des Instituts für Stadt und Regionalplanung der T echnischen Universität Berlin (79) . Berlin: Universitätsverlag der  TU Berlin. https://doi. org/ 10. 14279/ depositonce4913 .  Keller, E. F. (1995). The Origin, History, and Politics of the Subject Called ‘Gender and Science’  A First Person Account. In S. Jasanoff, G.E. Markle, J.C. Petersen & T. Pinch (Eds.): Hand‐ book of Science and T echnology Studies , Sage, Thousand Oaks, London, New Delhi, pp. 80–94.  https://doi. org/ 10. 4135/ 9781412990127. n4 .  Knapp, G.-A. (2005). Intersectionality – ein neues Paradigma feministischer Theorie? Zur  transatlantischen Reise von ‘Race, Class, Gender’ . Feministische Studien 1/05, pp. 68–81.  Kortendiek, B., Riegraf, B. & Sabisch, K. (Eds.). (2019). Handbuch Interdisziplinäre  Geschlechterforschung . Springer VS. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783658125004 166 Petra Lucht  Kubes, T. (2019). New Materialist Perspectives on Sex Robots. A Feminist Dystopia / Utopia?  Social Sciences  8 (8). 224. Retrieved from www.mdpi.com/2076-0760/8/8/224  Lucht, P. (2014). Usability und Intersektionalitätsforschung Produktive Dialoge. In N. Mars‐ den & U. Kempf (Eds.) (2014): GENDER -UseIT . HCI, Usability und UX unter Gender‐ gesichtspunkten . Oldenbourg, München; de Gruyter, Berlin / Boston, pp. 37–52. https://doi.  org/ 10. 1515/ 9783110363227. 37 .  Lucht, P. (2017). Integration intersektionaler Gender Studies in MINT – Praxisprojekte im  Zertifikatsstudienprogramm Gender Pro  MINT der T echnische Universität Berlin. In C.  Bath, G. Both, P. Lucht, B. Mauss & K. Palm (Eds.): reboot ING. Handbuch Gender-Lehre in  den Ingenieurwissenschaften . Lit Verlag, Berlin, pp. 207–233.  Lucht, P. (2018). Interventionen in Geschlechterpolitiken von Fachkulturen, Epistemen und Arte‐ fakten der Natur-, T echnikund Planungswissenschaften. Fallbeispiele aus der Lehrforschung .  Open Gender Journal (2018). https://doi. org/ 10. 17169/ ogj. 2018. 22 .  Lucht, P. & Mauß, B. (2015). T eaching Research-Based Gender Competencies in STEM. The  Study Program GENDER PRO MINT at the T echnische Universität Berlin. In: Proceedings  of the Annual Conference of the European Society for Engineering Education, SEFI Annual  Conference 2015, Diversity in Engineering Education: Facing New T rends in Engineer‐ ing, 29.06.-02. 07. 2015, Orléans. Retrieved from https://www. sefi. be/ wpcontent/ uploads/  2017/ 09/ 57493P. LUCHT. pdf (19. 06. 2020).  Lucht, P. & Paulitz, T. (2008). Recodierungen des Wissens. Zu Flexibilität und Stabilität von  naturund technikwissenschaftlichem Wissen – Eine Einleitung. In P. Lucht & T. Paulitz  (Eds.): Recodierungen des Wissens. Stand und Perspektiven der Geschlechterforschung in Natur‐ wissenschaften und T echnik . Frankfurt am Main: Campus Verlag, pp. 11–27.  Margherita-von-Brentano-Zentrum. (2020). Freie Universität Berlin, Retrieved from https:// www. mvbz. org/ genderprofessuren (22. 01. 2020).  Maaß, S., Draude, C. & W ajda, K. (2014). Gender-/Diversity-Aspekte in der Informatik‐ forschung. Das GERD-Modell. In N. Marsden & U. Kempf (Ed.): GENDER-UseIT . HCI,  Usability und UX unter Gendergesichtspunkten . München: De Gruyter Verlag / Oldenbourg  Verlag, pp. 67–77. https://doi. org/ 10. 1515/ 9783110363227 .  Mauss, B. (2017). Forschungsbasierte Gender Studies Lehre für Studierende der T echnikwis‐ senschaften an der TU Berlin im Rahmen des Studienangebotes GENDER PRO MINT . In  C. Bath, G. Both, P. Lucht, B. Mauss & K. Palm (Ed.): reboot ING. Handbuch Gender-Lehre  in den Ingenieurwissenschaften . Münster: LIT Verlag, pp. 275–290.  McRobbie, A. (2010). T op Girls. Feminismus und der Aufstieg des neoliberalen Geschlechter‐ regimes . Wiesbaden: VS-Verlag.  Metzger, M. & Kaiser, F. (2015). ‘Thin Ice’. Gender in den Klimawissenschaften . Die Ingenieurin  3/2015 (114), pp. 37–40.  Mies, M. (1983). ‘T owards a Methodology for Feminist Research’ . In G. Bowles & R. DuelliKlein (Eds.): Theories of W omen’s Studies , pp. 117–39. Boston: Routledge and Kegan Paul.  Miersch, A. (2015). Spielplätze – Räume mit oder jenseits von Geschlechtszuschreibungen. Für all  die CARAS . Die Ingenieurin 3/2015 (114), pp. 29–32.  Okrafka, M. (2015). V arus, wo ist meine Zielgruppe?  Die Ingenieurin 3/2015 (114), pp. 18–19.  Otters, R. (2015). Raum, Kindheit, Natur. W as lehren sogenannte ‘Naturerfahrungsräume’?  Die  Ingenieurin 3/2015 (114), pp. 33–36.  Palm, K. (2010). Biologie: Geschlechterforschung zwischen Reflektion und Intervention . In R.  Becker & B. Kortendiek (Ed.): Handbuch Frauenund Geschlechterforschung . 3rded., VS-Ver‐ lag, Wiesbaden, pp. 851–859. T ransdisciplinary Research on ‘Gender’ in Science, T echnology, and Society 167  Palm, K., Jähnert, G., Völker, S., Grenz, S., Palm, K. & Jähnert, G. (Eds.). (2018). Materialität /  en und Geschlecht: Beiträge zur 6. Jahrestagung der Fachgesellschaft Geschlechterstudien e.V .  Berlin: Selbstverlag. https://doi. org/ 10. 25595/ 461 .  Paulitz, T. (2010). T echnikwissenschaften. Geschlecht in Strukturen, Praxen und Wissensfor‐ mationen der Ingenieurdisziplinen und technischen Fachkulturen. In R. Becker & B. Kor‐ tendiek (Eds.): Handbuch Frauenund Geschlechterforschung . 3rded., VS-Verlag, Wiesbaden,  pp. 787–798. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783531919720_ 95 .  Quo vadis Feminist STS? Genealogien, Herausforderungen und Visionen feministischer Wis‐ senschaftsund T echnikforschung. (2019). Retrieved from https://www. stsgenderzifg. tu berlin. de/ fileadmin/ fg363/ Flyer_ Quovadisfeministsts_ online. pdf  Riley, D., Pawley, A. L., T ucker, J. & Catalano, G. D. (2009). Feminisms in Engineering Educa‐ tion: Transformative Possibilities . The National W omen’s Studies Association Journal 21 (2),  pp. 21–40.  Schiebinger, L. (1999). Has Feminism Changed Science?  Cambridge (Mass.): Harvard University  Press.  Schiebinger, L. (2004). Plants and Empire: Colonial Bioprospecting in the Atlantic W orld . Cam‐ bridge (Mass.): Harvard University Press.  Schiebinger, L. (2011). Gendered Innovations in Science, Health & Medicine, Engineering, and  Environment . Retrieved from http://genderedinnovations. stanford. edu/ (14. 06. 2020).  Schiebinger, L. & Klinge, I. (Eds.). (2013). Gendered Innovations. How Gender Analysis Con‐ tributes to Research . Retrieved from https://web. stanford. edu/ dept/ HPS/ 2012. 4808_ Gen‐ dered% 20Innovations_ web2. pdf Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union.  Schultz, M. & Seedorf, M. (2016). The Loop Ensemble. Open Source Instruments for  T eaching Electronic Music in the Classroom. In: Proceedings of the 13thSound & Music  Computing Conference, Hamburg, Germany 31.08.-03. 09. 2016, pp. 422–426. Retrieved  from http://www. georghajdu. de/ computermusicnotation/ wopre/ wpcontent/ uploads/  smc/ SMC2016_ proceedings_ final2. pdf (27. 09. 2016).  T raweek, S. (1992). Beamtimes and Lifetimes: The world of high energy physicists . Cambridge,  MA; London, UK: Harvard University Press.  W ajcman, J. (2004). T echnoFeminism . Cambridge Malden, (Mass.): Polity Press.  W algenbach, K. (2007). Gender als interdependente Kategorie. In K. W algenbach, G. Dietze, A.  Hornscheidt & K. Palm: Gender als interdependente Kategorie. Neue Perspektiven auf Inter‐ sektionalität, Diversität und Heterogenität . Barbara Budrich, Opladen & Farmington Hills,  pp. 23–64.  W algenbach, K. (2013). Postscriptum: Intersektionalität – Offenheit, interne Kontroversen  und Komplexität als Ressourcen eines gemeinsamen Orientierungsrahmens. In H. Lutz et  al. (Ed.) (2013): Fokus Intersektionalität . Springer Fachmedien,Wiesbaden, pp. 265–277.  https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783531925554_ 13 .  Winkel, H. (2018). Postkolonialismus: Geschlecht als koloniale Wissenskategorie und die weiße   Geschlechterforschung. In B. Kortendiek, B. Riegraf & K. Sabisch (Eds.) Handbuch Inter‐ disziplinäre Geschlechterforschung . Geschlecht und Gesellschaft, vol. 65. Springer VS, Wies‐ baden. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783658125004_ 361  Winner, L. (1980). Do Artifacts Have Politics?  Daedalus Vol. 109, No. 1, Modern T echnology:  Problem or Opportunity? (Winter, 1980), pp. 121–136. Barriers to Space  “One Giant Leap” for Canadian Early-Career STEM W omen  Stefanie Ruel  1. Introduction Picture the following: you do an internet search on Canadian women scientists or en‐ gineers, at the start of their careers, who are working in space. The top two results are  links to a webpage on a Canadian astronaut, Dr. Roberta Bondar, or on one or two  early-career science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM)-trained women  who work in the United States (U.S.) National Aeronautics and Space Administration  (NASA). Canadian women, who are recent STEM graduates and who are interested  in working in space or those who are at the start of their space career, are not often  heard from or seen even in this digital age. This is in spite of the fact that the space  industry is important to the Canadian economy, generating $ 5.5B in yearly revenues  in 2016 alone (Canadian Space Agency [CSA], 2016). This hidden existence for earlycareer STEM-trained women is a multilayered one, and is not attributable to any single  event or practice. This type of existence in the shadows is indicative of possible barriers  to space that early-career STEM-trained women may experience.  Focusing on the U.S. space industry for just a moment longer, the histories surround‐ ing the race to the Moon are more often than not on the military-trained White men  and their exploits in space (McComb, 2012; McQuaid, 2007). These men are accorded  an almost exclusive hyper-masculine voice with respect to their contributions to Cold  W ar space exploration. Think of W olfe’s (1979) Right Stuff  as an example of this hypermasculine voice. This exclusive voice is in the process of being disrupted with popular me‐ dia books such as Shetterly’s (2016) tale of African American STEM women as Hidden  Figures  or W eitekamp’s (2004) Right Stuff, Wrong Sex: America’s First W omen in Space  Program . W omen who worked on the Apollo program are also coming forward. Notably,  Rhoda Shaller Hornstein, an aerospace technologist during the Apollo era, addressed  the 70thInternational Astronomical Congress in October 2019. She talked of her earlycareer at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center, outlining the systemic discrimination  she endured, not only at the beginning of her career but throughout her tenure in the  industry (Hornstein, 2019). There are also academic studies that are starting to break  down these U.S.-based historical space barriers. These works include Ruel et al.’s (2018)  retelling of the story of Ruth Bates Harris, the first African American woman hired as  a senior manager at NASA in the early 1970s, and Ruel et al.’s (2019) study of White  women at the Guided Missile Range Division during the mid-1960s. 170 Stefanie Ruel  T urning back to Canada, STEM-trained women and their role in space exploration  are not the subject of much scrutiny in Cold W ar histories except for a handful of studies  (Gosztonyi Ainley, 1990; Herzberg, 2010; Korinek, 2004; Ruel et al., 2020). Canadian  women and their contributions are shrouded in obscurity, unknown to both insiders  and outsiders of the national and global space industry. For example, the activities sur‐ rounding the Alouette I satellite, that marked Canada as the third space-faring nation  (Godefroy, 2011), are typically accorded to one hundred STEM men. A single photo‐ graph of a woman appears in the media reports of the time; a ‘space princess’ attempting  to climb atop an Alouette mockup (see Figure 1). Otherwise, women in Canadian space  histories do not seem to exist.  Figure 1: Alouette Space Princess (Brebner, 2014, used  with permission)  The cisgender 1 Canadian space industry histories, that divide visible men from the  invisible women, are but one of the barriers women face in this industry. Other barriers  include limited to no entry-level STEM positions in this industry (CSA, 2013). W omen,  1 Butler’s (1990) and Boje’s (1991) understanding of gender roles as a socially constructed performance,  that adhere to masculine and feminine-ideals, informs the use of this term. I use cisgender and gender  interchangeably in this chapter.Barriers to Space 171  a designated Canadian employment equity group (Department of Justice, 2014), also  find it difficult to attain management positions in for-profit companies, universities,  and in federal government departments that work in the space industry (Ruel, 2019).  The few women who do hold STEM management positions appear to be token (Kanter,  1977). W orse still, the lack of visibility into the contributions made by STEM-trained  women who self-identify as members of other Canadian employment equity groups, that  is Aboriginal / First Nations, visible minorities, or as persons with disabilities (Depart‐ ment of Justice, 2014), speaks volumes to this hidden existence.  All is not lost, however. By shedding light on these barriers, we can actively undo  them, taking that proverbial “giant leap” . In this chapter, I introduce the context of the  historical and the contemporary Canadian space industry. I also present a framework of  discourses and identity intersectionality (Collins & Bilge, 2016; Crenshaw, 1989, 1991)  and the methodology I used in this empirical research that will help us dive into the  narratives and stories of two early-career STEM-trained women, Geirit and Eliya 2. I close  with a message of hope, inviting you to join others in recognizing and then undoing these  barriers to space for early-career STEM-trained women.  2. Canadian Space Industry Context 2.1 Historical Canadian Space Industry Engineering and science have roots in masculine-dominated military institutions  (Hacker, 1989; Royal Military College, n.d.) . Along with the goal of instilling rigid  military discipline, creating the best engineers, mathematicians, and officers were also  central concerns of such institutions (Hacker, 1989). For example, the Military College  of Canada, founded in 1874, was and continues to be focused on training officers  in military tactics and fortification, as well as on engineering and objective scientific  knowledge acquisition (Hacker, 1989; Royal Military College, n.d.). It is noteworthy  that this Canadian military college system specifically excluded women from entering  its halls until 1979. Hacker (1989) argues that the military provides the first instance  of a structured, masculine-ideal hierarchy for those learning within the engineering and  science professions. She similarly argues that military engineering serves to maintain  occupational stratification along cisgender lines.  There are important influences from the military in Canada’s efforts to explore space  (Gainor, 2006; Godefroy, 2011). Notably, the Defense Research Board (DRB) and the  Defense Research T elecommunications Establishment (DRTE), home to the Alouette  satellite program, were organizations focused on establishing reliable communication  over long distances by studying the ionosphere. These types of scientific and engineering  2 These are pseudonyms to protect these individuals’ identities.172 Stefanie Ruel  efforts came to prominence during W orld W ar II, and thereafter during the Cold W ar.  In particular, Dr. John H. Chapman, a former radar officer in the war and a physicist  trained at W estern and McGill Universities, along with two colleagues at the DRTE  led important discussions with their counterparts at NASA regarding studying the iono‐ sphere from space (Green, 1957). T o Dr. Chapman’s credit, he did try to hire qualified  women scientists to join his team, succeeding in convincing others to bring women  onboard as student trainees (Chapman, 1958), such as Doris Jelly (Gainor, 2006), or  as full-fledged staff members, as is the case with Dr. Luise Herzberg (Herzberg, 2010).  In spite of these efforts, the one-hundred men involved in Alouette I are the ones  celebrated today, to the detriment of the more than one-hundred and twenty women  (Ruel et al., 2020) who also worked on this initiative. Such names as Frank T. Davies, Dr.  Chapman, Colin Franklin, David Florida, Philip Lapp, Leroy Nelms, Keith Brown, John  Mar, and George J. Klein, to name just a few of these one-hundred men, are rightfully  recognized for their important contributions to Canada’s foray into space. However,  names like Dr. Herzberg and Ms. Jelly are not celebrated or known. Dr. Herzberg was  able to produce an impressive body of knowledge for the DRTE. She was one of the  last Jewish women accorded a PhD degree in Germany before the start of W orld W ar  II, and following her and her husband’s escape from the Nazis, she managed to cobble  together Canadian summer student positions into the late 1950s while also raising her  two children and looking after her parents and her in-laws effectively on her own. Her  work, in solar spectroscopy and limb-center displacement of infrared solar lines, and then  her focus on low-earth orbit and Alouette data analysis (Herzberg, 2010), seems to be lost  in these masculine-centered Canadian space histories. Similarly, first hired as a summer  student working on data analysis at the DRTE in 1953, Ms. Jelly later became a fulltime physicist at DRTE in the Radio Physics Laboratory (RPL). The RPL was concerned  with “basic studies of the upper atmosphere, and particularly with the disturbances that  result therein under the influence of charged particles from the sun” 3. Ms. Jelly, at the  time a member of the Canadian Association of Physicists and the American Geophysical  Union (N.A., 1969), is still active at the time of writing, ensuring that Alouette and other  important scientific work accomplished by the DRTE are not forgotten. Ms. Jelly does  acknowledge, during interviews with her, that she was surrounded almost exclusively  by military men within DRTE; she does, however, recall working with Dr. Herzberg.  Ms. Jelly also recalls, which we later confirmed via archival research, that she oversaw  a number of women in technical positions including scalers in the Upper Atmospheric  Physics Section. These women would “scale” , or retrieve information from the Alouette  3 T o facilitate archival references I am putting this one in a footnote. This quote is attributable to Library  and Archives Canada, Box MG 31 J43 Vol 3, file 1960–1965 DRTE Scientific and Administrative  Organization guides, DRTE Scientific and Administrative Organization, DRTE Publication No. 1037,  January 1960, p. 3.Barriers to Space 173  ionograms, and then they would investigate large numbers of these ionograms, looking  for particular features (Ruel et al., 2020).  2.2 Contemporary Canadian Space Industry Context The Canadian space sector took formal shape following the 1990 proclamation of the  Canadian Space Agency Act  (CSA, 2015b). The CSA, the brainchild of Dr. Chapman,  is responsible to the Canadian parliament with respect to spending, ensuring that space  initiatives are funded and that all activities comply with various legislations in place. The  CSA is at the center of what is considered non-military efforts in coordinating, financ‐ ing, and promoting the Canadian space sectors (Godefroy, 2017). While it is beyond  the scope of this chapter to present all of the CSA’s responsibilities, the organization  does provide access to key space resources, such as the International Space Station and  other microgravity vehicles, via extensive formal rules and international partnerships.  In addition, there are over one hundred and fifty for-profit companies, universities,  and government departments in the Canadian space industry, with “the top 30 space  organizations generating 97 % of total space revenues and 79 % of space employment”  (CSA, 2016, p. 6). Many if not most Canadian space initiatives continue to be conducted  by privately-run organizations, such as MacDonald Dettwiler and Associates (MDA),  and universities such as McGill University and Y ork University.  Individuals who work in this industry handle important science, technology, and en‐ gineering challenges that untrained STEM individuals would find challenging to address.  Specifically, the global workforce of space professionals is recognized in the literature  as being resilient, and able to weather a number of cancelled programs that exceeds  completed programs (Allan, 2004; Lang et al., 1999). These STEM-trained individuals  are also able to master communication skills beyond the technical (Lang et al., 1999).  They also have a capacity for working through tremendous amounts of paperwork (Al‐ lan, 2004). Significant challenges to working interdependently also characterize this  industry, notably for individuals in the Japanese Space Agency or the Russian Space  Agency as compared to those who work with the European Space Agency, NASA, or  CSA (Sandal & Manzey, 2009). In their study of active duty and retired astronauts, and  of international space agency personnel, Lozano and W ond (2000) identified fourteen  cultural factors that affect work in this industry. T raits, such as humor, were highlighted  as necessary given the long hours of intense work. However, culture may dictate what  is considered funny for one and not for another. Lozano and W ond (2000) also noted  that cisgender can affect role interdependence in space; cisgender roles, norms, and  stereotypes can create tension and conflict among crew members.  The outcome of contemporary occupational stratification along cisgender lines is an  ongoing issue and continues to be the subject of a number of studies (e.g. Cardador,  2017; Cardador & Hill, 2018; Hewlett et al., 2008). Specifically, Canadian STEMtrained women represent fewer than 20 % of managers across the Canadian space indus‐174 Stefanie Ruel  try (CSA, 2012; Catalyst, 2013). One of the largest private space organizations, MDA,  has a history of contributing important work in the Canadian space industry dating back  to 1969. In 2012, they had no women in senior officer positions out of a possible eight  positions (Catalyst, 2013). At the time of writing this chapter, MDA had undergone  a number of mergers and acquisitions including finding itself under the U.S. banner  of Maxar T echnologies Inc. (Byers, 2017). Under Maxar, MDA had two women on its  board of directors: Roxanne Decyk; and, Joanne Isham (Maxar T echnologies Inc., 2019).  Another private company, Calian’s SED Systems, a small space organization established  in 1965 (Calian Ltd., 2019), has an executive made up entirely of eight White men  (Calian SED Executive T eam, 2019). As for the CSA, in 2015, 22 % of the scientific and  professional workforce positions were held by women (CSA, 2015a). From my personal  experience in this organization until late 2016, only one executive position was held by  a White / French Canadian / mother with a PhD in engineering. This translates to an  8.33 % representation rate for women in scientific executive positions at the CSA.  With this historical and contemporary Canadian space industry context in mind, I  now turn to the framework of discourses and identity intersectionality. Such a theoreti‐ cal framework is important to consider at this time, as this structure helps to support the  empirical findings that I will present later in this chapter.  3. Framework of Discourses and Identity Intersectionality Empirically speaking, there are few discourses by and of STEM-trained women in the  technology industry or space industry that are published. If there are any, these discourses  are tales centered on what to do and how to act like the masculine-protagonists in  question; think of Sandberg (2013), who extols 1960s liberal feminist norms in the tech‐ nology industry. I believe that we need to hear about day-to-day practices with the rosecolored glasses removed. Painful, mundane, and triumphant discourses need to be shared  in such a way to influence and to transform the social interactions in organizations.  Ultimately, I don’t want to be part of a silent majority that helps to maintain barriers  to women entering and being part of the space industry.  The concept of discourse, as I use it in this chapter, reflects “everyday attitudes  and behavior, along with our perceptions of what we believe to be reality” (Grant et  al., 1998, p. 2). Discourses can be constructed as sets of statements and practices that  bring an individual, or sets of individuals, into being within a larger context of meanings  (Parker, 1992). This idea of melding in larger meanings through discourse offers us a  way of restructuring the social, where we can make sense of everyday events by telling  and retelling these broader meanings within stories and narratives, two tangible examples  of discourses. Stories engage, excite, frustrate, and can make one mad. The emotions  conveyed in shared stories draw you in, making you part of that story. Stories can also  reveal values, rules, and boundaries (Saleebey, 1994), without the individual necessarily Barriers to Space 175  recognizing these stories in such a way. Narratives, on the other hand, inform the present  and guide the future. They are widespread, attentive to form and style, and often relate  to prototypical matters (Saleebey, 1994). In essence, “they instruct, chasten, and lend  rhetorical weight to norms and conventions” (Saleebey, 1994, p. 354). Examples of nar‐ ratives include interpretations, arguments, and opinions which lack plot, characters, and  action (Gabriel, 1998). Stories, to be clear, are not the same as narratives. Stories are more  loosely organized and more idiosyncratic than narratives. Furthermore, stories typically  focus on a single event with the goal of entertaining, inspiring, and educating (Gabriel,  1998).  Stories and narratives do draw on who we are and who we want to be, or our identities.  This centrality of identity, as Thurlow (2007) found, can be teased out of stories and  narratives, and the making of sense of these discourses, to reveal an individual. This  centrality of identity is, however, not fixed or stable in these discourses as we continually  make sense of events and experiences, and of who we are (Helms Mills et al., 2010). Our  identities ebb and flow throughout our discourses, in other words. As a result, discourses  are plausible in the moment they are told, and our interpretations are also plausible in the  moment that we interpret them. This plausibility does not imply, though, that identities  will not or cannot change in the future.  This concept of identity and its centrality comes to us from many different schools  of thought. It is beyond the scope of this chapter to consider all of these; a high-level  introduction to ‘who I am’ is required in order to understand what the stories and  narratives of Geirit and Eliya are going to tell us. The self – ‘who I am’ and ‘who I am  becoming’ according to Mead (1932, 1934) – is constructed around a sense of identity  that each of us possesses as a result of social activities and events. This self comes to light  through our capacity to use language, to assign meaning to the narratives and stories,  and to reconstruct an image of ourselves in social interactions (Anderson, 2016). The  self is (re)created in our ongoing “adjustment and adaptation” (Anderson, 2016, p. 179)  through discourses experienced in those social interactions. Discontinuities in the social  allow the self to (re)create fragmented stories of ‘who I am’ and of the positioning that  can occur in social interactions.  The concept of identity, within such a framework of the self, can be constructed  along self-identity and social-identity lines. Self-identity is the “notion of who he / she  is becoming” (Corlett & Mavin, 2014, p. 262). This concept also permits us to explore  self-perception as a question of ‘who I am’ . For example, my perception of ‘who I am’  includes being a French-Canadian and depends on the social world I find myself in. For  example, June 24this the Saint-Jean Baptiste  holiday in Quebec, a nationalist cry for the  Québécois  (masculine) 4 to embrace their cultural, independent status. In this milieu, I  would not state that I am French-Canadian but rather Québécoise  (feminine) to avoid  4 Typically, the masculine is a discursive norm used in French to embrace everyone in society.176 Stefanie Ruel  possible political – or bodily – harm. While my discourse is different, I still reflect my  cultural heritage as being part of me, of who I consider myself to be. This example  surrounding my self-identity is also an example of a resistance discourse; I actively choose  to politically name this self-identity, depending on the context I find myself in, to fit a  social world with its own cultural norms and rules that I navigate on a daily basis.  Social-identity consists of ‘inputs’ into this self-identity (W atson, 2008). These in‐ puts are socially constructed; that is, they involve an experience, a history, or a position in  society that is external to and coercive to the individual (Anderson, 2016). Attachments,  such as emotional involvements, can also be considered inputs (Ashmore et al., 2004).  Social-identities can be manifested in and influenced by discourses. For example, when I  worked in the Canadian space industry, my occupational social-identity was Life Sciences  Mission Manager. This social-identity reflects a position in society; that I was employed,  that I was STEM-trained and knowledgeable in the field of life sciences, and that I  was socially categorized within the Canadian space industry. The difference between  self-identity and social-identity in these two examples is that my self-perception is one  of being French-Canadian, but my social-identity of Life Sciences Mission Manager  was assigned or attributed by an organizational structure that said this was ‘who I am  becoming’ .  The ephemeral and changing states of identities are both fascinating and a bit daunt‐ ing to analyze, especially when we meld in identity intersectionality into this framework.  Intersectionality, coined by Kimberley Crenshaw (1989, 1991), is concerned with ad‐ dressing identity categories (cisgender, race, class, etc. 5) that are interdependent and  that constitute each other. These intersecting identities change through time, context,  and social interactions (Calás et al., 2013). Empirical research conducted by Crenshaw  (1989) and Collins (2000), along with many others (e.g. Calás et al., 2013; Van Laer  & Janssens, 2014), demonstrate that complex identity intersections can position in‐ dividuals in society, creating an order often manifested as discrimination. This order,  reproduced in discourses, can position the complex individual along their intersecting  identities, erecting a variety of barriers. For example, someone may identify a Black  woman who is dependent financially on her partner. She is, in other words, not ‘just’  a Black woman, or ‘just’ a woman, or ‘just’ a financially dependent woman; she is an  amalgam of all these identities. An anchor point, a financially-dependent Black woman,  is a temporary and fluid construction of this individual’s self (Ruel, 2018). This anchor  point highlights not only the intersection of race, cisgender, and her socio-economic  status but also that an order exists; that is, this financially-dependent Black woman is  positioned below her partner, perhaps an employed Black man. Empirically, such an  5 Fourteen possible identity categories were identified by Lutz (2002): race or skin color, (cis)gender, sexu‐ ality, ethnicity, class, culture, religion, age, able-bodiness, migration or sedentariness, national belonging,  geographical location, property ownership and status in terms of tradition and development. I choose to  identify three categories with an ‘etc.’ at the end for writing economy purposes only.Barriers to Space 177  individual has been shown to be treated differently than a White woman or a Black man  within a legislative context (Crenshaw, 1991) or within other social realities (e.g. Bowleg,  2008; Ruel et al., 2018).  Anchor points are a sub-branch of social-identity. They are temporary, fluid, in‐ tersecting, influenced by and through social interactions, and are attributed through  discourses (Glenn, 2004; Ruel, 2018). The exercise of identifying anchor points is not to  generate an exhaustive list; instead, it is to plausibly understand these positionings and to  begin to undo unjust social orders that support these positionings. With these concepts  in mind, I now turn to the research design I used to capture, extract and analyze Geirit  and Eliya’s discourses.  4. Research Design The overall participant sample recruited for the study on STEM-professional women  in the Canadian space industry was diverse. 6 I drew from a range of STEM-education  levels (i.e., bachelors, masters, PhD), professional and occupational roles (i.e., executives,  managers, engineers, scientists), Canadian-specific career stages (i.e., early-career [under  5 years], mid-career [over 5 years but under 15 years], late-career [over 15 years]), and  types of Canadian space organizations (i.e., public and private). I organized the partic‐ ipant sample by career stage, as I found this scheme helped me to trace the individual  and her experiences. Interestingly, this categorization led to themes emerging from all  collected data, and resulted in this chapter on early-career STEM-trained women. Table 1  summarizes some of the demographic information for these early-career women.  Career  Stage Name Cisgender / Ethnicity /  Cultural / Sexual PreferenceProfession /  EducationMarital Status /  Family Status Early Geirit W oman / White / Anglophone  (Canadian) / Sexual orientation  not definedT ech Lead / Senior  Engineer / PhD Single Early Eliya W oman / White / French  (European*) / HeterosexualEmployee* / Junior  Engineer / masterSingle * T o protect the participant, some of her specific cultural, professional and academic identities are not  shared.  T able 1: Early-Career STEM-Trained W omen and Their Intersecting Identities 6 The complete research initiative on STEM-professional women’s exclusion in the Canadian space indus‐ try can be found in Ruel (2019). This chapter is based on two participants from this larger study; they  and their stories are presented in a more in-depth fashion in this chapter and are framed for a particular  audience.178 Stefanie Ruel  Data collected included the participant’s narratives and stories and a variety of doc‐ uments, including participant e-mails and publicly available corporate reports. I chose  to specifically use unstructured interviews with the participants following quantitative  and qualitative empirical studies that show that identities are best left to the individual  to identify through their own voice (Ashmore et al., 2004). The option to conduct the  interviews in French or in English was offered as this reflects the bilingual reality of the  Canadian space industry. This option to be interviewed in French or in English also takes  into account Pavlenko’s (2001) call for the inclusion of bilingualism in research.  The interviews were tape-recorded and maintained in three separate physical loca‐ tions, each with separate password protection. A copy of the recorded interviews was  provided to two professional transcribers. Interviews were either transcribed directly by  one professional transcriber when participants chose to speak in English, or the inter‐ views were translated and transcribed from French to English by the other professional  transcriber. This French-English live translation / transcription was a viable financial  option, given the experience of this professional transcriber and my own bilingual expe‐ rience in this industry. The resulting transcriptions and other collected documents were  similarly kept in three different physical locations and were password protected.  I focus, in this chapter, on the narratives and stories that Geirit and Eliya used to  construct both their occupation and their self. T o be able to find and then share these  narratives and stories, I analyzed the transcripts and extracted those narratives and sto‐ ries that would interest an audience of undergraduate and masters-level students. I also  analyzed the transcripts in such a way to (re)construct Geirit and Eliya’s complex selves.  Specifically, I looked for discourses that revolved around selfand social-identities as well  as their anchor points, asking myself repeatedly what a reader would want to know about  these women and about their experiences in such a way to better understand the daily  barriers these women faced. I also surfaced dominant practices, values, and rules that this  audience would want to know about. I did this as a way to shine a light on various hidden  elements of this industry. I turn now to these findings.  5. Early-Career STEM-Professional Women in the Canadian Space  Industry 5.1 Geirit Geirit’s stories and narratives reveal some aspects of ‘who I am’ along with ‘who I am  becoming’ . She emphatically self-identified as someone who never wants children, also  labeling herself as “long term single”: “I never had any interest in having kids, so that’s  not an issue either. I think if you don’t want – if you actively don’t want – kids, it sort of  changes the importance of all that.” She did not identify her sexual orientation, choosing  to leave this unspecified during our conversation. She also self-identified as someone who Barriers to Space 179  is very hard working. She underlined that she “needs change,” comparing a number of  times where she used to live – a beautiful European city – to where she lives now, a place  that is anything but beautiful:  I don’t know if you’ve been to [specific city]? It’s kind of a hole. [. . . ] I was coming from [a  specific European city] and just small towns in North America. Great if you want to live,  you know, raise a family or something [in the specific city that is a hole]. Just not what I was  looking for. So, I got to the point where I was like, “I am really not happy here. I need to  change,” and I was starting to think about looking for a new job.  Her social-identities are influenced by ideologies relating to her academic credentials,  occupations, and social attachments. Geirit is internationally educated, with an under‐ graduate and a master of science degree. She also holds a PhD degree for which she  developed a prototype flight hardware. She is recognized internationally as an engineer  but not within the provincial Order of Engineers where she works. This subtlety is  important given previous research done by Porter (2013) on the Order of Engineers,  a professional association that certifies engineers to work in various engineering fields.  Specifically, Porter (2013) found empirical evidence of sexual harassment and sexual  discrimination in this Order . In Geirit’s case, she did share her experiences with me  regarding her provincial Order. Notably, that a colleague, who is a man with a similar  undergraduate background as hers, was asked to write only the ethics exam for the Order.  She, on the other hand, was asked to write seven technical exams at the cost of $ 500 each.  This experience highlights one example of what appears to be a gendered educational  barrier to joining the Order of Engineers in this particular province, and how this could  impact Geirit’s social-identity (i.e., not recognized as a ‘professional’ engineer) and her  career progression potential in this province.  With respect to Geirit’s occupational influences, she works within a private Canadian  space organization, the Hexagon Company. She states that:  My first job [for Hexagon] was to interface between the engineering teams and the customer.  They were looking for somebody with an education in physics and experience in their  aerospace field. [. . . ] I do anything from initial concept studies, proposal work quite a bit.  So like a lot of early-phase program work where its orbital mechanics or its requirements  definitions. I’ve been tech lead on a number of programs, and then the other half of what  I’ve done is a lot of systems testing. [. . . ] And now I work at operations, so I have a lot of  experience in the beginning and the end, from a systems perspective.  Geirit finds that technical work, by those in a technical position, at this Hexagon com‐ pany is done mostly by men, while women represent the “standard 20% ” in technical  positions: “There is one functional manager for software who is a female. The other  managers are all male. It’s your pretty standard 20 % of the personnel is female.” Geirit  also gained some STEM work experience beyond Canada’s borders:  W ell, for the first six or eight months [after my PhD] I was looking for a job and then waiting  for a Visa. I did my PhD in [specific European country], decided to go back to [Europe], 180 Stefanie Ruel  worked [for another company]. I was a subcontractor too [at another company] for about a  year and a half.  Even during her short tenure in the Canadian space industry, Geirit experienced many  organizational changes. Some of her stories highlight challenges that some early-career  STEM-trained individuals can face with respect to attachments, and the need to develop  resilience in the face of such relentless changes:  W ell, over the past years, there’s been a couple restructurings within [Hexagon] before [this  latest change]. And since [this latest change], there’s been, you know, upper management of  course moved on. There was a few layoffs. [. . . ] [That group that I was a part of ] was only  like a year and a half old when I joined. Since then, it sort of dissolved back into the bigger  part of [the company] [. . . ] And now that [this latest change has happened], everything’s  sort of getting shifted around; it’s still in flux.  I’m now on my third manager since I got hired [. . . ] There was a bit of a restructuring. His  group was me and another girl. She – I think she got laid off in one of the rounds of layoffs –  and just as a whole our group got smaller [. . . ] That put me under a different manager. He  resigned, and that group has sort of re-formed a couple of times, but basically that group  reports to the person that was his manager [. . . ] [This latest change happened], so who knows  what’s going to happen with that.  As a plausible explanation for surviving such extensive changes, the idea of merit seems to  be at play for Geirit. This merit ideology appears to be embraced by women in this indus‐ try as Faulkner (2000) and Morgan (2000) found. T echnical know-how, in particular, is  used extensively in Geirit’s stories and narratives. Geirit does talk to working in diverse  projects, with minimal supervision and with growing responsibilities. She is recognized  as a “technical lead,” building on these experiences and on her skills to gain this elusive  merit.  A subset of her social-identities, or her anchor points, reveals her positioning in this  industry, along with some of the daily barriers she faces. Starting with ‘The Bitch’ anchor  point, Geirit recounted the circumstances surrounding this positioning:  I’m probably known as a bit of a bitch; I’ve lost my patience with people that just can’t do  their job. So not the manager that hired me but the manager after him, we worked together  on [specific project] [. . . ] and he didn’t really see eye-to-eye with the rest of the team, and I  was the most outspoken member of that team [. . . ] He and I butted heads quite a bit [. . . ]  W e were always arguing: “Why are you worried about that?” “That’s not a problem” or “Why  aren’t we doing it this way?”  She found herself, at times, having to underline that she is ‘The Leader’ – another one of  her anchor points – while wondering why she was forced to do this. ‘The Leader’ anchor  point reflects different organizational behaviors, such as influence, vision, and motiva‐ tion (Bratton & Chiaramonte, 2007) more so than, say, the gendering anchor point of  ‘The Bitch’ . In spite of the risks associated with working in an unstable environment, Barriers to Space 181  Geirit continued to resist day-to-day interactions that attempted to, in her words, “put  her in her place” as ‘The Bitch’:  There’s another guy in that program [. . . ] He had like 40 years of experience in the space  industry, so he knows a lot, has a lot of experience and he would sometimes talk like, “W e’re  going to do this,” and there were a couple of times where I had to be like, “Y ou know, I  appreciate your input but we haven’t decided yet, and even that’s not really your decision  to make, but, you know, don’t stop giving me an input, but that’s not your [hesitates] you  know, I’m leading the program.”  I do have annual performance reviews and sometimes these sorts of things [overstepping my  bounds, being ‘The Bitch’] come up.  I was thinking of a specific instance where I had basically said to this guy, “Thank you,  but that’s not your role” in front of a room full of people! And then I went and asked  my functional manager if that was overstepping my bounds because, you know, a) outside  perspective, and, b) somebody with more experience than me – my senior.  These stories and narratives showcase some of Geirit’s struggles in her day-to-day social  interactions. In the first passage, she did not hesitate to forcefully stand her ground,  embracing ‘The Leader’ anchor point in spite of interacting with a colleague well beyond  her years of experience. In the second and third passages, she struggled with ‘The Bitch’  anchor point, wondering if she had overstepped her bounds. Historically, women who  try to lead are indeed labelled ‘The Bitch’ (Mavin, 2008). While there is no evidence that  Geirit is being ‘The Bitch’ , she is clearly assertive, knowledgeable in her field, and has been  assigned programmatic mission responsibilities. It is plausible that Geirit may be trying  to conform to the masculine-dominant culture in order to survive in the everchanging  environment she finds herself in. She is trying to “walk a very fine line between being  ‘like’ the valued-masculine prototype” (Miller, 2004, p. 68) – assertive technical lead –  while also navigating what she calls her “female-ness” via ‘The Bitch’ positioning.  Linked to this “female-ness” is the ‘Females are More Serious’ anchor point, which  surfaced in numerous stories about her educational and work experiences. The following  story showcases this anchor point:  So, I’m there [in a European country] for a couple years, and everybody that started after me  was female and I said flat out to one of the managers: “This is weird. Why [. . . ] I mean, I  know what the statistics are – the number of [females] in school – right?” And he told me  that: “we prefer to hire females because we find that they’re more serious about their work  than the guys are.”  She emphatically and forcefully stated during our interview together that her “femaleness” has nothing to do with her abilities and skills: “that’s just ridiculous. If I had been  in a different situation when I got hired, I might’ve considered quitting based on that!  I don’t want to be hired based on that.” Another brief narrative, reproduced below,  introduces another facet to this “female-ness”: “they knew me; they had seen my work  [. . . ] so, that’s positive toward females, but I don’t want to see that.” Here, Geirit admits 182 Stefanie Ruel  that she doesn’t want to see that her “female-ness” has anything to do with her work. Her  ability to do her job, her knowledge, her training, etc., – in other words, her merit and  skills – needs to carry her work and not her “female-ness” . Furthermore, Geirit appears  to have a cisgender understanding of merit and skills with respect to her expectation for  “reasonable” career progression:  Geirit:  I can’t picture myself being happy, doing the same thing for 20 years. So, whether it’s  up or sideways, I’m interested in going where it’s interesting, where I can be useful, where I  can be good at what I do [. . . ] I feel like you can go toward management, but it’s hard to go  back toward technical if you haven’t been doing something technical for 10 years [. . . ] My  management’s always given me positive feedback. Y ou know, that’s a reasonable expectation  [to become a manager] for me. Let’s put it that way.  Interviewer:  Are they helping develop your management potential?  Geirit:  Specifically, management potential? I would say not yet. Leadership potential, I  would give you that. [. . . ] I’m fairly outspoken, so I think it falls naturally that I go into  that role as a leader.  Her “technical lead” positioning helps her, she believes, to develop her eventual man‐ agerial abilities. She also interprets positive feedback in her appraisals as signs of a  “reasonable expectation” that she will become a manager. Importantly, however, her  management potential is not being developed by the organization, or, from what I could  tell, by her. What is being developed is her ability to embrace ‘The Leader’ anchor  point. Specifically, she is following what she believes to be a reasonable progression:  developing technical skills / merit, embracing ‘The Leader’ identity, and then “naturally”  or “organically” becoming the manager. These expectations for progress run counter to  the demographic realities of this industry, where STEM-trained women rarely become  managers in spite of their strong technical skills and merit.  5.2 Eliya Eliya self-identifies as very hard working, wanting to be the best at whatever she does, to  the point of compromising her health:  I expect a lot of myself and from others too – which isn’t bad – but I’m always disappointed  by the work.  I gave my all when I was a student and I don’t want to study anymore. There was a year where  it wasn’t working out; yeah, I wasn’t feeling it, and I wasn’t very good. I had to be top five of  160. I ended up with three ulcers. That was horrible!  Similar to Geirit, Eliya stated that she does not want children: “No, I never really wanted  any [children]. People always said, ‘Y ou’ll see when you are 30,’ and I’m [specific age]  now. ‘Y ou’ll see when you’re 30; it’ll hit you like a ton of bricks,’ but, no, it hasn’t changed  yet.” In her narratives and stories, Eliya appears to offer more of a back-and-forth inner  dialogue than a definitive statement on ‘who I am’ . This is interesting from a sociological Barriers to Space 183  perspective, as it showcases that her self-identities are, indeed, fluid and subject to influ‐ ences not only from internal dialogue but also from external interactions.  Eliya’s social-identities seem to reflect understandings such as those discussed by  Pavlenko’s (2001), with calls to include language 7, academic credentials, occupations,  and her gender. With respect to the influence of language, Eliya specifically requested  that the interview be conducted in French. This is important, as it underscores a cultural  ideology that helps define her social-identities. Significantly, she began her interview by  sharing a defining moment for her:  So, even before university, there was an experience that really had an impact on my life: I  went to the United States at 16 to learn English. Before that I liked to travel, but for this trip  I went alone, at 16 [. . . ] After that, I told myself that I needed to pick a field that would allow  me to travel in addition to following my passion for space, something I’ve been wanting to  do since I was very little.  Eliya was able to follow her passion for space, graduating with a master’s degree after  passing through a “prestigious” European system of education:  For my Lycée, I studied in [specific European country]. I was a good student. In [this specific  European country], there’s a stream you can take when you are good in math and physics –  very elite. So I applied to that.  I went to an engineering school. In [specific European country], there’s a specific branch for  engineering, with a specialization in space and aeronautics. [. . . ] I worked hard. Only the best  get to go, so I worked hard to be one of the best and have the opportunity to do this double  diploma. So I did two and half years in [Europe] and two years in the U.S. Both diplomas  were in aeronautics and space, and in the U.S. it was a master’s of science, for which I did  research during a year and half.  W e also discussed her movement in different jobs through her international experiences:  My last year of studies in the U.S., I found work in [Europe], as a consultant. I was a subcon‐ tractor for [specific space company], and there I validated the flight software for [specific]  satellites. My contract was up after a year, and the company for whom I was working wanted  to transfer me over to a different department that wasn’t my thing [. . . ] So I left. I looked  at international postings because I was ready to leave, and I found something in Germany  at [another specific space company], the company that does European [specific space mis‐ sions]. So we [my boyfriend and I] applied to aerospace jobs in South Africa, Argentina and  in Canada. I found my current job here in Canada, so we came to Canada. During that phase,  between Germany and Canada, I worked for three months for the [specific] Space Agency.  7 I chose to focus on French as a cultural ideology. I could have also done the same for English interviews;  however, those participants that spoke English did so without clearly identifying this influence while  French-speaking participants made this an explicit request.184 Stefanie Ruel  Eliya did find it challenging to find a position after her first contract:  It’s hard to find work. Apparently it’s getting better, but in my experience, when I decided  to leave again, it was because I couldn’t find anything in [a European country]. I also wanted  to leave, but I spent a month and a half looking full-time, sending CVs out six hours a day,  and I got no answers. Not even a ‘no’ . No interview, nothing.  She now works within a private Canadian space organization, the Octagon Company,  and has diverse responsibilities:  I was working only for [specific manager] in [specific satellite] operations until January  [2016]. Since January, I’ve changed to the development of [specific] operations. I got the  offer in September. The posting was for [specific location], and I really wanted to move  there, but the conditions that were offered were [hesitates] a bit tough.  I was a project lead last year, managing the budget, the planning, the training for [specific  country]. So, I was project lead on that, coordinating the trainers, building the course pro‐ gramming, and all that. I liked it a lot – the subject, the training. I love what I do.  Eliya shared that she is not “career-oriented” and that there is a lot of change in the  particular organization she works for:  I’d like to leave for a year and really take advantage of discovering new things. [. . . ] I imagine  becoming an expert and maybe do consulting one day in satellite design. I’d really like to  work in South America one day. There’s the aspect of work that is actually fascinating, but  there’s also the discovery of a new country and culture. I really love that.  At the moment, there are lots of people leaving. Two just left, and there are apparently two  others who want to leave.  With respect to her gender, Eliya also touched upon her heterosexual relationship with  her boyfriend. Specifically, she had to make various choices with respect to her career  where she deferred to her boyfriend’s wishes:  I looked at international postings because I was ready to leave, and I found something in  Germany [. . . ] That would have worked for me, but in the meantime, I met a boyfriend who  didn’t want to go to [there], so I said no to this offer.  The posting was for [specific location] and I really wanted to move there, but the conditions  that were offered were [hesitates]. W ell, not in the state I was in. My boyfriend and I had  separated.  This idea of deference is important to consider as an ideology that can influence women  in the space industry. As Ruel et al. (2019) presented in their historical study of White  women who worked in the U.S. space industry in the 1960s, women were expected to  leave their careers to marry or to have children. I am talking to this influence on Eliya’s  social-identities not as an admonition but rather as an observation that these types of  cisgender choices – those between romantic relationships and work – continue to be  made by women in the space industry even today. Barriers to Space 185  Among Eliya’s range of anchor points, I am focusing on a select few of them in this  chapter; notably, the ‘Not Very Serious’ / ‘Y ou’re so Funny’ and the ‘The Only Girl’ . I  found myself attributing the ‘Not Very Serious’ / ‘Y ou’re so Funny’ anchor point to Eliya,  during the interview, without realizing I was doing so. I was mirroring what others had  done in her daily interactions and we discussed it further together:  It’s spontaneous; lots of other people said it [being refreshing / funny] could be harmful, but  not so far. I think something I discovered here – one of my strengths – is that I don’t stress  over losing my job, and that allows me to [hesitates] I tell myself that it doesn’t matter if it  doesn’t go well; there are [other] things I can try.  This particular anchor point was challenging to extract from transcripts, and then to  analyze, because I could easily categorize it as a self-identity, so prevalent it was during  the interview. Eliya played with this ‘Not Very Serious’ / ‘Y ou’re so Funny’ identity, at  times unsure of it. Given my own impulse to attribute and use ‘Y ou’re so Funny’ with  her, and her uncertainty about attributing it to herself, it is plausible that this identity is  not yet a self-identity.  This ‘Not Very Serious’ / ‘Y ou’re so Funny’ anchor point also relates, importantly, to  another aspect of women’s experiences in this industry. W omen are targets for men’s  teasing and, in light of this value, Eliya recognizes that she needs to be “adaptable” within  this masculine-dominant context:  There were so many times that, well the others were a bit rough around the edges. At  lunch, I’d get corks thrown at me. One guy came to me and told me he was watching me  all day – yeah, that was a bit [hesitates]. Some were very cultured, knew lots of things, but  not educated in terms of good manners [. . . ] It still left an impression on me.  W e sometimes had Italians who [. . . ] who had come, and they had pulled that on [specific  woman’s name], checking her out from head to toe. She was furious. And me, I barely  noticed. That’s how it is for me now.  From the literature, Powell et al. (2009) found that within engineering professions,  women perform by accepting these types of gendered jokes and teasing as a way to get  by. Linked to accepting such practices is the ability to endure them. Eliya’s ability to  withstand the teasing is, arguably, found within her ‘Y ou’re so Funny’ anchor point. This  anchor point disarms others in a way that is novel, with a focus on what she calls “fun  ways” of undoing the positioning she faces on a daily basis.  Earlier in Geirit’s experiences, we gained some insight into the unstable work context  she found herself in. Eliya’s shared experiences also underscore this instability. What  differentiates Eliya from Geirit is Eliya’s approach to this instability. While Geirit in‐ ternalized the “need for change” into her self-identities, Eliya seemed to make sense of  this instability through her anchor point of being ‘Not Very Serious’: “the worse that  can happen is that I leave and find something else [. . . ] It’s no big deal if you fire me;  I’ll have some time off ! [laughs!]”; “After [specific program], I’d like to leave for a year 186 Stefanie Ruel  and really take advantage of discovering new things.” These brief narratives, along with  others, appear to be repeated calls to taking time off, planning for travel, etc. Through  these shared discourses, I was able to gain a better understanding of how Eliya could be  attributed the ‘Not Very Serious’ anchor point: if she consistently shared with others in  the industry a wish to “discover new things” or a plan to take “some sabbatical leave to  travel,” colleagues would start to question her commitment to the industry, reflecting  this in her ‘Not Very Serious’ anchor point. Alternatively, these repeated calls to leaving  the industry could also be interpreted as a resistance discourse. T o protect herself from  the ever-present and tangible prospect of losing her job, Eliya chooses to embrace this  anchor point by using a devil-may-care attitude with respect to her job.  The demographic reality of the Canadian space industry, as I presented earlier, sup‐ ports the emergence of another one of Eliya’s anchor point, ‘The Only Girl’: “in the U.S.,  there were classes where I was the only girl. Or we were two among 30.”; “and, yeah, I  was pretty much the only girl, and there were so many times that, well the others were  a bit rough around the edges.” Eliya also did acknowledge that most meetings or social  encounters reinforced her sense of being ‘The Only Girl’ . Surprisingly, in light of this  anchor point and the demographic reality of the industry, Eliya presents her supervisor,  a STEM-trained man, as head of a “harem of girls” . Eliya no doubt experienced the  disparity of, on the one hand, being part of this “harem” and, on the other hand, being  ‘The Only Girl’ . Similar to Geirit, Eliya also walks this gendered fine-line acknowledging  that the first two years of working in the Canadian space industry were difficult:  I was always a bit lost, I didn’t understand anything in meetings, acronyms, and it was compli‐ cated with [company # 1], with [company # 2] and the [specific man who yelled at me]. And  I couldn’t ask [company # 1] too many questions; there was no contractual agreement for  them to be paid to answer my questions. So yeah, the guy [who yelled at me] was eventually  removed. Sometimes I hear him in meetings. Not sure why he reappears [laugh].  Digging deeper into this “guy who yelled at me” , Eliya’s day-to-day interactions with  certain individuals is challenging to say the least. The following two stories underscore  her selfidentified need to be “adaptable” , if she wishes to continue to work in an industry  that condones such behavior:  [A specific company] gave us two people, one of whom everyone had warned me about – how  it was hell working with him, how tons of people had quit because of him. He hates women,  he has no emotional intelligence, he’s always back-stabbing – I heard this from everyone.  I was insulted over the phone by a guy from [a specific company]. Apparently, he has an  issue with girls at work. With [specific girl], there had previously been a concern. So, in fact,  I found a problem on the [specific project] [. . . ] and as he had worked on it, I asked him  about it. He replied that it wasn’t his fault if I didn’t know my stuff, and it definitely wasn’t  his job to train me, and so on. He had yelled so loudly that two offices down, behind closed  doors, they had heard [. . . ] Y eah, not only being young, but also being a girl, it wasn’t always  easy. Barriers to Space 187  Eliya’s ability to navigate these types of interactions with individuals who have “issues  with girls” reveals much about some of the barriers she faces on a daily basis. She believes  she was yelled at because (1) she is a “girl” and, (2) as a “girl” , she was asking too many  questions. That it is acceptable that this individual should react to Eliya in this way does  not seem to be an issue – if she wasn’t a “girl” asking such questions, then she would  not be yelled at. Y et as someone looking from the outside, you can perhaps see that it  should not be Eliya who has to make sense of a co-worker’s microaggressions; rather, the  coworker himself should be the one asking why he is yelling at her or why he has issues  with “girls at work” .  6. Concluding Thoughts: Undoing Barriers to Space The barriers to working in the Canadian space industry emerge not only through ac‐ counts of the historical influences of women in the space industry but also from the  exploration of contemporary experiences of early-career STEM-trained women. Some  of these contemporary experiences can be seen through such dominant practices as  gendered educational barriers, women representing the “standard 20% ” in technical po‐ sitions, the need to develop resilience – including embracing merit above everything else  and dealing with being yelled at – in the face of relentless change, deferring to boyfriend’s  wishes with respect to career choices, and navigating a variety of temporary anchor points  that can position women below others. From the stories and narratives of two earlycareer STEM-trained women, we also learned about their specific experiences having to  navigate the gendered fine-line, the teasing and the microaggressions that victimize them.  There is evidence, via the analysis of their discourses, that these early-career STEMtrained women do not yet see some of these barriers and these anchor points. As a case  in point, Eliya “barely notices” when she is being “checked out at work. That’s how it  is for me now” . Geirit’s gendering ‘The Bitch’ anchor point, too, does not incite her  to resist such a label; rather, she tries to move towards an acceptance of this anchor  point, with a need to run to others to ask if she has, indeed, “overstepped” boundaries.  Perhaps most worrisome, Eliya makes sense of being yelled at because she is “young” and  a “girl” who asks (too many) questions. She appears to accept these microaggressions as  reflective of her state of being a “girl” . The question of how these barriers for early-career  STEM-trained women come to be does not result in a cause-and-effect type of answer.  Specifically, I did not look to make a causal link between if I call a STEM-trained woman  ‘The Bitch’ , she is or becomes the ‘Bitch’ . The empirical findings I share in this chapter  support the notion that barriers are being erected and practiced on a daily basis in this  industry, and this through multilayered activities including attributing anchor points,  found in stories and narratives occurring in the everyday social interactions.  Although the identities surfaced in this study are momentary snapshots of what is go‐ ing on in this industry, these snapshots also bring hope that such positioning experiences 188 Stefanie Ruel  can be undone. In other words, the barriers and anchor points do not have to be given life  and reproduced repeatedly, if we take the time to recognize them. W e can stop microag‐ gressions, for example, by telling offenders that it’s unacceptable to yell at an early-career  STEM-trained woman or any woman for that matter. W e can encourage organizations to  work toward improved job stability in the industry, and to offer more tangible support  for activities such as management skill development, career development skills, etc. T o be  clear, many early-career STEM-trained women working in the space industry are already  highly trained, sometimes surpassing the training that men hold in this industry. The  broader issue of resources to move into leadership positions needs to be examined, not  just the issue of women-versus-men in management.  In closing, I challenge all in the space industry to construct identities, stories, and  narratives that can disrupt the status quo and that do not position STEM-trained women  below others, regardless of career stage. Let’s be catalysts for change, part of a movement  that acknowledges that barriers exist. Reveal these barriers, and take that “giant leap” to  undo them.  References Allan, K. (2004). The final frontier? [Space industry engineer / scientist shortage]. IEE Review ,  50(6), 24–25.  Anderson, K. L. (2016). Thinking about sociology: A critical introduction  (2nd ed.). Oxford  University Press.  Ashmore, R. D., Deaux, K., & McLaughlin-Volpe, T. (2004). An organizing framework for col‐ lective identity: Articulation and significance of multidimensionality. Psychological Bulletin ,  130 (1), 80–114. https://doi. org/ 10. 1037/ 00332909. 130. 1. 80  Boje, D. M. (1991). The storytelling organization: A study of story performance in an officesupply firm. Administrative Science Quarterly , 36(1), 106–126.  Bowleg, L. (2008). When Black + Lesbian + W oman [not equal to] Black Lesbian W oman:  The methodological challenges of qualitative and quantitative intersectionality research. Sex  Roles , 59(5–6), 312–325.  Bratton, J., & Chiaramonte, P. (2007). Chapter 16: Leadership in an organizational context.  In A. J. Mills, J. Helms Mills, C. Forshaw, & J. Bratton (Eds.), Organizational behavior in a  global context  (pp. 483–502). Broadview Press.  Brebner, J. (2014). Private collection of photographic images: Alouette I, Alouette II, and ISIS   [Photographic Images].  Butler, J. (1990). Gender trouble . Routledge.  Byers, M. (2017, December 28). How Canada lost its foremost space company. The Globe  and Mail . https://www. theglobeandmail. com/ reportonbusiness/ robcommentary/ how canadalostitsforemostspacecompany/ article37449474/  Calás, M. B., Ou, H., & Smircich, L. (2013). “W oman” on the move: Mobile subjectivities after  intersectionality. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion: An International Journal , 32(8), 708– 731.  Calian Ltd. (2019). About Us: Calian / SED Systems . https://www. sedsystems. ca/ aboutus/ Barriers to Space 189  Calian SED Executive T eam . (2019). https://www. sedsystems. ca/ aboutus/ executiveteam/  Canadian Space Agency [CSA]. (2012). CSA demographic profile and organizational review  (2011–2012) . Saint-Hubert, Qc.  Canadian Space Agency [CSA]. (2013). State of the Canadian space sector 2012 . Saint-Hubert,  Qc. www.asc-csa.gc.ca / pdf / eng / industry / state-2012.pdf  Canadian Space Agency [CSA]. (2015a). CSA demographic profile and organizational review  (2013–2014) . Saint-Hubert, Qc.  Canadian Space Agency [CSA]. (2015b, July 28). Mission and mandate . Canadian Space Agency  W ebsite. http://www. asccsa. gc. ca/ eng/ about/ mission. asp  Canadian Space Agency [CSA]. (2016). State of the Canadian space sector report 2016. SaintHubert, Qc .  Cardador, M. T. (2017). Promoted up but also out? The unintended consequences of increasing  women’s representation in managerial roles in engineering. Organization Science , 28(4), 597– 617. https://doi. org/ 10. 1287/ orsc. 2017. 1132  Cardador, M. T., & Hill, P. L. (2018). Career paths in engineering firms: Gendered patterns  and implications. Journal of Career Assessment , 26(1), 95–110. https://doi. org/ 10. 1177/  1069072716679987  Catalyst. (2013). 2012 Catalyst census: Financial Post 500 women senior officers and top earn‐ ers. Catalyst. http://www. catalyst. org/ knowledge/ 2012catalystcensusfinancialpost500 womenseniorofficersandtopearners0  Chapman, J. H. (1958). Memorandum: Potential recruits . File: Chapman, J.H. DRTE Corre‐ spondence 1958; Box MG 31 J43 Vol. 4.  Collins, P. H. (2000). Chapter Nine: Moving beyond gender: Intersectionality and scientific  knowledge. In M. M. Ferree, J. Lorber, & B. B. Hess (Eds.), Revisioning Gender  (pp. 261– 284). Alta Mira Press.  Collins, P. H., & Bilge, S. (2016). Intersectionality . Polity.  Corlett, S., & Mavin, S. (2014). Intersectionality, identity and identity work: Shared tenets  and future research agendas for gender and identity studies. Gender in Management: An  International Journal , 29(5), 258–276. https://doi. org/ 10. 1108/ GM1220130138  Crenshaw, K. (1989). Demarginalizing the intersection of race and sex: A black feminist critique  of antidiscrimination doctrine, feminist theory and antiracist politics. University of Chicago  Legal Forum , 1989 (1), 139–167.  Crenshaw, K. (1991). Mapping the margins: Intersectionality, identity politics, and violence  against women of color. Stanford Law Review , 43(6), 1241–1299.  Department of Justice. (2014, November 1). Consolidated federal laws of Canada, Employment  Equity Act . http://lawslois. justice. gc. ca/ eng/ acts/ E5. 401/ page1. html# anchorboga:s_ 2  Faulkner, W. (2000). The power and the pleasure? A research agenda for “making gender stick”  to engineers. Science, T echnology & Human V alues , 25(1), 87–119.  Gabriel, Y. (1998). Chapter Five: Same old story or changing stories? Folkloric, modern and  postmodern mutations. In D. Grant, T. W. Keenoy, & C. Oswick (Eds.), Discourse and  Organization  (pp. 84–103). Sage Publications.  Gainor, C. (2006). Canada in space: The people & stories behind Canada’s role in the exploration  of space . Folklore Publishing.  Glenn, E. N. (2004). Unequal freedom: How race and gender shaped American citizenship and  labor [Kindle DX V ersion] . Harvard University Press.  Godefroy, A. B. (2011). Defence and discovery: Canada’s military space program, 1945–74 . UBC  Press. 190 Stefanie Ruel  Godefroy, A. B. (2017). The Canadian space program: From Black Brant to the International  Space Station  (Kindle Edition). Springer Praxis Books.  Gosztonyi Ainley, M. (Ed.). (1990). Despite the odds: Essays on Canadian women and science .  Véhicule Press.  Grant, D., Keenoy, T. W., & Oswick, C. (1998). Introduction: Organizational discourse: Of  diversity, dichotomy and multi-disciplinarity. In D. Grant, T. W. Keenoy, & C. Oswick  (Eds.), Discourse and organization  (pp. 1–13). Sage.  Green, J. J. (1957). Letter: Joint USAF-Canadian propagation research facility . File: Chapman,  J.H DRTE Correspondence 1957; Box MG 31 J43 Vol. 4.  Hacker, S. L. (1989). Pleasure, power & technology: Some tales of gender, engineering, and the  cooperative workplace . Unwin Hyman.  Helms Mills, J., Thurlow, A., & Mills, A. J. (2010). Making sense of sensemaking: The critical  sensemaking approach. Qualitative Research in Organizations and Management: An Interna‐ tional Journal , 5(2), 182–195.  Herzberg, P. A. (2010). Luise Herzberg, Astrophysicist: A memoir . Y ork University Bookstore.  Hewlett, S. A., Luce, C. B., Servon, L. J., Sherbin, L., Shiller, P., Sosnovich, E., & Sumberg, K.  (2008). The Athena factor: Reversing the brain drain in science, engineering, and technology .  Harvard Business Publishing.  Hornstein, R. S. (2019). Keynote: A girl in the man-on-the-moon program: Camaraderie and  discrimination in the Apollo era . IAC-19-E4.3.1 , 1–8.  Kanter, R. M. (1977). Men and women of the corporation . Basic Books.  Korinek, V. J. (2004). “Its a tough time to be in love”: The darker side of Chatelaine during  the Cold W ar. In R. Cavell (Ed.), Love, hate, and fear in Canada’s Cold W ar  (pp. 159–182).  University of T oronto Press.  Lang, J. D., Cruse, S., McVey, F. D., & McMasters, J. (1999). Industry expectations of new  engineers: A survey to assist curriculum designers. Journal of Engineering Education , 88(1),  43–51.  Lozano, M. L., & W ond, C. (2000). Concerns for a multicultural crew aboard the International  Space Station. Journal of Human Performance in Extreme Environments , 5(1), article 13, page  111–113.  Lutz, H. (2002). Zonder blikken of blozen: Hetstandpunt van de (nieuw-) realisten. Tijdschrift  V oor Genderstudies , 5(3), 7–17.  Mavin, S. (2008). Queen bees, wannabees and afraid to bees: No more ‘best enemies’ for women  in management? British Journal of Management , 19(s1), S75–S84. https://doi. org/ 10. 1111/  j. 14678551. 2008. 00573. x  Maxar T echnologies Inc. (2019). Maxar T echnologies Inc Board of Directors . http://investor.  maxar. com/ corporategovernance/ boardofdirectors/ default. aspx  McComb, E. C. (2012). Why can’t a woman fly?: NASA and the cult of masculinity, 1958–1972   [Ph.D., Mississippi State University]. http://0search. proquest. com. aupac. lib. athabascau. ca/  pqdtft/ docview/ 1012353113/ abstract/ 30BAB5DBAAF4B33PQ/ 3? accountid= 8408  McQuaid, K. (2007). Race, gender, and space exploration: A chapter in the social history of the  space age. Journal of American Studies , 41(2), 405–434.  Mead, G. H. (1932). The philosophy of the present . Open Court. https://brocku. ca/ MeadPro‐ ject/ Mead/ pubs2/ philpres/ Mead_ 1932_ toc. html  Mead, G. H. (1934). Mind, self and society  (Vol. 111). University of Chicago Press.  Miller, G. E. (2004). Frontier masculinity in the oil industry: The experience of women engi‐ neers. Gender, W ork & Organization , 11(1), 47–73. Barriers to Space 191  Morgan, L. A. (2000). Is engineering hostile to women? An analysis of data from the 1993  national survey of college graduates. American Sociological Review , 64(2), 316–321.  N.A. (1969). Contributors. Proceedings of the IEEE , 57(6), 1172–1179.  Parker, I. (1992). Discourse dynamics . Routledge.  Pavlenko, A. (2001). Bilingualism, gender, and ideology. International Journal of Bilingualism ,  5(2), 117–151. https://doi. org/ 10. 1177/ 13670069010050020101  Porter, J. M. (2013). The hegemonies and antagonisms of sexual harassment and sexual discrim‐ ination discourse in a professional engineering association  [Athabasca University]. https://dt.  athabascau. ca/ jspui/ handle/ 10791/ 24  Powell, A., Bagilhole, B., & Dainty, A. (2009). How women engineers do and undo gender:  Consequences for gender equality. Gender, W ork & Organization , 16(4), 411–428.  Royal Military College. (n.d.). Royal Military College of Canada . Royal Military College of  Canada. http://www. royalmilitarycollege. ca/  Ruel, S. (2018). The “silent killers” of a STEM-professional woman’s career. Equality, Di‐ versity and Inclusion: An International Journal , 37(7), 728–748. https://doi. org/ 10. 1108/  EDI-08-2017-0168  Ruel, S. (2019). STEM-professional women’s exclusion in the Canadian space industry: Anchor  points and intersectionality at the margins of space . Emerald Books.  Ruel, S., Dyer, L., & Mills, A. J. (2020). Chapter 7: The Canadian Alouette women: Reclaiming  their space. In M. Maclean, S. R. Clegg, R. Suddaby, & C. Harvey (Eds.), Historical Organiza‐ tion Studies: Theory, Methods and applications  (pp. 107–130). Routledge.  Ruel, S., Mills, A. J., & Helms Mills, J. (2019). Gendering multi-voiced histories of the North  American space industry: The GMRD white women. Journal of Management History , 25(3),  464–492.  Ruel, S., Mills, A. J., & Thomas, J. L. (2018). Intersectionality at work: The case of Ruth Bates  Harris and NASA. Ephemera , 18(1), 17–49.  Saleebey, D. (1994). Culture, theory, and narrative: The intersection of meanings in practice.  Social W ork , 39(4), 351–359.  Sandal, G. M., & Manzey, D. (2009). Cross-cultural issues in space operations: A survey study  among ground personnel of the European Space Agency. Acta Astronautica , 65(11–12),  1520–1529. https://doi. org/ 10. 1016/ j. actaastro. 2009. 03. 074  Sandberg, S. (2013). Lean In: W omen, work, and the will to lead . Alfred A. Knopf.  Shetterly, M. L. (2016). Hidden figures: The American dream and the untold story of the Black  women mathematicians who helped win the space race  (Reprint edition). William Morrow.  Thurlow, A. (2007). Meaningful change: Making sense of the discourse of the language of change .  Sobey School of Business, Saint Mary’s University.  Van Laer, K., & Janssens, M. (2014). Between the devil and the deep blue sea: Exploring the  hybrid identity narratives of ethnic minority professionals. Scandinavian Journal of Manage‐ ment , 30(2), 186–196. https://doi. org/ 10. 1016/ j. scaman. 2013. 08. 004  W atson, T. J. (2008). Managing identity: Identity work, personal predicaments and structural  circumstances. Organization , 15(1), 121–143.  W eitekamp, M. A. (2004). Right stuff, wrong sex: America’s first women in space program . JHU  Press.  W olfe, T. (1979). The right stuff  (1st ed.). Farrar, Straus, and Giroux. Gender Barriers to Scientific Rewards  Inequitable Practices in Research Evaluation  Gita Ghiasi  1. Introduction Evaluations have historically rested on the judgement of experts in the field. Y et over re‐ cent decades, quantitative measures have increasingly taken root in scientific evaluations,  and peer-review has become tightly entangled with – if not replaced by – a variegated set  of quantitative indicators commonly associated with publications, patents, citations, and  collaborations. This is largely due to the large-scale applicability, high degree of clarity  and objectivity, and the increased efficiency in effort, cost, and time that these indicators  could offer to the peer-review process (Haustein & Larivière, 2015). The decisions made  based on scientific evaluations are hence more tangible and often more transparent.  While the ease and accessibility of such metrics are appealing to experts and nonexperts for scientific evaluation or reward allocation, these indicators are not entirely  neutral and contribute to the “Matthew effect” (Merton, 1968) – a term coined after  the “Parable of the Talents” in the Gospel of Matthew, and alluding to the famous adage  “the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.” The Matthew effect draws attention to  inequities in the scientific recognition system in two situations: (1) eminent scientists  tend to receive disproportionately greater credit for their contributions to science, and  (2) relatively unknown scientists receive disproportionately less to no credit for similar  or comparable contributions. While lesser-known and disadvantaged scientists fall into  the latter case, for women scientists, the Matthew effect leads to more than cumulative  disadvantage; it results in systematic underestimation – or even denial – of women’s  contributions to science, work that is often attributed to their male peers. This effect,  known as the “Matilda effect,” was named by Rossiter (1993) after Matilda Joslyn Gage,  an American women’s rights activist who had already written about the effect in the 19th century.  Given that the inflated importance of these measures could lead to uneven or, often,  unfair evaluations, these indicators must be applied with caution because they are prone  to misinterpretation. Since gender inequality still prevails in science, with women highly  underrepresented, the misuse of bibliometric indicators for science evaluation could have  dire consequences for women and, thus, exacerbate existing inequalities. This chapter  focuses on four main elements of scientific evaluation – authorship, inventorship, cita‐ tions, and collaborations – for which a plethora of indicators have been introduced. It  further presents an overview of each of these elements from a gender perspective and 194 Gita Ghiasi  provides a better understanding of how the (mis)use of these indicators could affect the  career progression of women in science.  2. Authorship Publishing is undoubtedly one of the most – if not the most – significant and essential  practices in science. This can be explained through three interrelated aspects (Rosen‐ baum, 2017): (1) Because published research results are officially qualified as scientific  or scholarly, publication is the main channel through which new knowledge is communi‐ cated; (2) scientific reward systems are centered around publications, attributing credit  and reputation to a researcher; (3) publications are an attestation of peer-approval and  thus define the mechanisms through which the assessment of scientific performance is  conducted.  Although publishing is essential to science, it is “authorship” – including all stages  of design, conduct, analysis, and publication of a scientific paper – that defines the  attribution of credit  and responsibility  in the publishing process. In this context, scientific  capital is not often equally attributed to authors, and often relies on the authorship order  in the byline. Authorship order is practiced differently across disciplines and classified  under three categories:  (1) Single / sole authorship: Sole authorship was historically common in science, but is  declining (Abt, 2007; Barlow et al., 2018; Kuld & O’Hagan, 2018). As a response to  the complexity inherent to science and technology, multiple authorship has gained  momentum over the years. Notwithstanding, sole authorship is still of great impor‐ tance in several review and evaluation processes (including promotion, tenure, and  funding allocation), mainly because it is highly associated with an author’s ability  to work independently (Gasparyan et al., 2013; Moore & Griffin, 2006). For some  authors, however, sole authorship offers more than credit or reward; it offers a dis‐ tinctive recognition for scientific work in the field hardly possible through multiple  authorship (Moore & Griffin, 2006). Sole authorship, thus, is undoubtedly valued  in the reward system of science and gives authors a distinctive level of recognition  and credit.  (2) Alphabetical authorship: This type of authorship, in which authors are listed al‐ phabetically in the byline of a publication, is less and less practiced. Nowadays, it  is most commonly used in certain disciplines (e.g., mathematics, economics, and  high-energy physics) or in publications with either a small or a large number of  authors (W altman, 2012). This type of authorship does not provide information  on the contribution of authors to the scientific publication, and it is, therefore, not  possible to determine to what extent credit should be apportioned to each author for  their contribution. Ideally, alphabetical authorship should be equally valued in the Gender Barriers to Scientific Rewards 195  scientific reward system (when no other information on the contribution of authors  is present); however, more credit and recognition is often inadvertently assigned to  better-known researchers listed in the publication’s byline.  (3) Contribution-based authorship: In this type of authorship, the position of authors  in the byline is based on the contribution that each has made to the publication.  Here, authorship analysis helps identify the lead authors, institutions, or even coun‐ tries involved in the scientific work. When authorship order is contribution-based,  there is general consensus in the scientific community that the most important  positions are attributed to the first, the last, and the corresponding author (often  the same person as the first or last author). The first author is often associated with  highest contributions (Larivière et al., 2016), and thus deserves more credit than  other authors. This position is generally attributed to early-stage researchers with  lower professional rank. The last author in the byline is typically a higher-ranked  researcher: the principal investigator or group leader of the published scientific  work (Mattsson et al., 2011; W est et al., 2013). The corresponding author is often  either the first or the last author. In publications where the corresponding author  is different from the first author, the correspondence is generally the responsibility  of the senior author responsible for research conception and supervision (Mattsson  et al., 2011), such as program director or principal investigator (Nahata, 2008).  Authorship positions are sometimes more valued in the scientific reward system  than the count of publications alone, and first, last, and corresponding authors are  those recognized and rewarded the most.  Along these lines, the demographics of authors involved in scientific publishing could  offer interesting insights into the representation of women in science. Similarly, gender  differences in various types of authorships may indicate how the reward system of science  is structured around these differences, which could ultimately manifest as gender-related  bias in recruitment, retainment, and promotion in the research workforce.  W omen are involved in fewer than 30 % of total scientific authorships (Larivière et  al., 2013; W est et al., 2013). Not surprisingly, women’s presence is least evident in the  Middle East and Japan, but, most interestingly, it is most prominent in South American  (Larivière et al., 2013) and East European counties, where scientific output is low and  research-related or academic jobs are not well paid. Looking into disciplinary differ‐ ences, women are least present in engineering, robotics, military sciences, aeronautics  and astronautics, high-energy physics, mathematics, computer science, philosophy, and  economics. On the other hand, they are most present in disciplines associated with care,  such as nursing; midwifery; speech, language, and hearing; education; social work; and  librarianship (Larivière et al., 2013).  Regarding various authorship practices, women are highly underrepresented as sole  authors. For example, women accounted for only 17 % of total sole-authored publi‐ cations indexed in the JSTOR corpus up to early 2011 (W est et al., 2013). In fields 196 Gita Ghiasi  where alphabetical authorship is practiced (e.g., mathematics, economics, and high en‐ ergy physics), women are also highly underrepresented (Larivière et al., 2013; W est et al.,  2013). Moreover, given that contributions of individuals are not discernable in this type  of authorship ordering, women are less likely to receive credit for their contributions  when they co-author with men, where credit is often attributed to their male peers.  They are thus less likely to be rewarded for their contributions. This phenomenon has  been scrutinized for women economists and the probability of them receiving tenure  (Sarsons, 2017). However, when contribution-based authorships are practiced, women  are still underrepresented in leading authorship positions. Although women are more  represented as first authors than last or corresponding authors, there exists nearly two  articles first-authored by men for every article first-authored by a woman (Larivière  et al., 2013). When comparing with the total author population, men are more highly  represented among authors as last or corresponding authors or those with a long publi‐ cation history (Elsevier, 2020). This could be explained within the context of the “glass  ceiling” (Hymowitz & Schellhardt, 1986) or “leaky pipeline” (Berryman, 1983), where  both concepts shed light on gender-related barriers that prevent women from reaching  high-level positions, causing them to leave science.  Given that the proportion of women awardees are closely entangled with the propor‐ tion of women among corresponding and last authors (Elsevier, 2020), the underrepre‐ sentation of women in senior authorship positions as last or corresponding authors car‐ ries strong implications for the reward system of science. Nevertheless, these disparities  presented in authorships are unlikely to disappear unless reforms are enacted to explore  and eliminate the barriers women face in science. It has been suggested that gender  disparity in publishing is likely to persist for decades (Holman et al., 2018; W ang et al.,  2019). This timeline is even longer for last and single authors. Closing the authorship  gender gap could take generations in some disciplines, particularly in physics (258 years),  computer science (280 years), mathematics (60 years), and surgery (52 years) (Holman et  al., 2018). These predictions could represent systematic biases in authorship conducive  to lower publication rates for women. It has also been shown that papers are less likely  to be accepted when the last or the corresponding author is a woman. Acceptance rate  dwindles even further when reviewed by all-male panels (Murray et al., 2019). This  would greatly favor men in authorship, as women are highly unrepresented as journal  editors and as journal reviewers.  The aforementioned gender disparities are indicative of gender inequality that still  prevails in science, and the barriers to women in science remain despite the implemen‐ tation of several gender-related initiatives across the globe. This draws attention to a  new dimension of concerns around credit attribution based on authorship practices and  opens up new discussions on how to orient the scientific reward system, which is founded  on authorships and publications, towards gender equity and quality in science. Gender Barriers to Scientific Rewards 197  3. Inventorship Innovative activities are commonly measured through patents (Acs & Audretsch, 1989),  as patents are often seen as inherent involvement of research and development (R & D)  in economic development. Patents are thus used as a measure of commercial success  and are rewarding for researchers in technology-related fields (Hagedoorn & Cloodt,  2003). These rewards offer far more than recognition and prestige, as they are directly  associated with intellectual property rights and monetary gains (Göktepe-Hulten &  Mahagaonkar, 2010). Therefore, involvement in patenting is sometimes rewarded more  than involvement in scientific publishing, and is increasingly used in scientific evaluation  for employment, promotion, and retention (Ganco et al., 2015; Ge et al., 2016).  Inventorship, similar to authorship, is described in attribution rights – a form of  intellectual property acknowledged by the social norms of science (Merton, 1957) and by  international conventions on the moral rights of performers (UNESCO, 2003; WIPO,  2008). Inventorship is a concept defined beyond mere contribution to a specific in‐ vention. It is a legal concept, and a patent could be declared invalid if contributions  of inventors do not comply with the legal definition of inventorship: Two individuals  are considered inventors on one patent only if they worked jointly and provided con‐ tributions to the conception  of an invention, defined by the US Supreme Court as “the  formation in the mind of the inventor of a definite and permanent idea of the complete  and operative invention as it is thereafter to be applied to practice”1.  Therefore, there is a clear distinction between inventorship norms and authorship  norms. Being involved in the conception of scientific discovery is not a necessary com‐ ponent to authorship attribution, but it is to inventorship. Therefore, a scientist who is  involved in acquiring funding, performing the experiments, and / or revising the drafted  manuscript could qualify as the author of a paper but not as the inventor of a patent.  The same applies to those who merely follow the instructions of a peer or supervisor.  Also, it is essential to note that the order of the names of inventors in the patent byline  has no bearing on the amount of contribution of each inventor to the invention, and  alphabetical name ordering is the most common practice.  As mentioned above, the social and legal norms regarding authorship and inventor‐ ship attribution can be different and are often dependent on negotiations among team  members. This negotiation process was formalized in a study by Lissoni et al. (2013) that  looked into related sets of patents and publications (patent-publication pairs) and found  that junior and female scientists are more prone to be excluded from inventorship when  litigation costs are high so that they can secure their position as first authors on articles.  In a similar study, Mongeon (2017) studied patent-paper pairs and found that even when  women occupy key authorship positions (listed as first and last authors) and even when  1 T ownsend v. Smith, 36 F.2d 292, 295, 4 USPQ 269, 271 (CCPA 1930)198 Gita Ghiasi  they are involved in the conceptual performance, they are less likely to be included as  inventors in the patents derived from those specific scientific activities.  Patenting is a highly male-dominated activity, with women representing only 11 %  of total patent inventorship (Sugimoto et al., 2015). Female inventorship is the highest  in patents owned by universities (which represent only 2.2 % of total patents) and is the  lowest in patents held by firms (which account for 72.4 % of total patents) (Sugimoto et  al., 2015). These results may suggest that due to its less hierarchical organization (shown  to be an essential factor in the advancement of commercial activities), academia provides  women with an environment more conducive to patenting than corporate or govern‐ mental institutions. W omen’s patents are also more likely to be rejected than those of  men, and those rejected patents are less likely to be appealed by the applicants, including  inventors, assignees, and patent representatives ( Jensen et al., 2018). Even when women’s  patents are granted, their patents receive lower citation rates than those of men ( Jensen  et al., 2018; Sugimoto et al., 2015).  The gender gap in patenting is often explained by the lack of women in science,  technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. However, this explains the  gap only in part, as it has been shown that women with STEM degrees are barely more  likely to patent than women without (Hunt et al., 2013). Other explanations include,  but are not limited to, exclusion from industry relationships; women’s fewer contacts  in industry; demands balancing academic careers (Ding et al., 2006); organizational  structure and fewer networking opportunities (Whittington & Smith-Doerr, 2008);  lack of training and support (Murray & Graham, 2007); women’s attitudes toward  risk, competition, and scientific commercialization; and gender discounting (Stephan &  El-Ganainy, 2007).  On one hand, patenting, as one of the main innovation indicators, is intricately asso‐ ciated with economic development. On the other hand, economic development cannot  be achieved unless inclusive growth is ensured. It is, therefore, of great importance to  have a comprehensive understanding of gendered practices in patenting. Given that in‐ stitutions are increasingly rewarding and promoting patenting activities, these gendered  practices need to be recognized and addressed, as they present consequences for hiring,  promotion, and retention of women in science and technology, and could ultimately  hinder women’s career advancement.  4. Citations Citations are considered one of the main components of the reward system in science.  They represent the interaction and engagement of new pieces of research with earlier  scientific publications upon which new scientific discoveries are grounded. Citations are  often applied to provide background to research, conceptualize research problems, struc‐ ture arguments, derive or justify methods, and support or refute a perspective (Sugimoto Gender Barriers to Scientific Rewards 199  & Larivière, 2018, p. 64). Due to the cumulative nature of science, aggregated citation  measures have become an important indicator in depicting the growth of knowledge. A  reference list indicates to what extent a new piece of research relates to scientific work  preceding it, with works that are cited repeatedly more likely to influence new scientific  insights. For these reasons, citations have been considered a measure of scholarly impact.  However, scientific impact is often associated with field and year normalized citations to  avoid disciplinary differences in the number of citations and the differences in citations  that can be accumulated in years. Similarly, patent citations are often considered as  patent or technological impact (Sugimoto et al., 2015). Patent impact is a measure of the  citations received for each patent normalized by technological field and year of issuance.  Citations and citation-based indicators are becoming more important and are widely  used to measure “scientific impact” or even sometimes “research quality.” Although the  latter association (between citations and research quality) rests on little to no evidence  (Aksnes, Langfeldt, et al., 2019), this dubious association has given rise to the further use  of citation indicators in scientific evaluations.  The increased importance of citations has led to the development of different indi‐ cators to measure the quality of research work or the researcher, the top among which is  journal impact factor and h-index. Journal impact factor ( JIF) is the number of total  citations received by the papers published in a given journal during the two previous  years divided by the number of papers published in the journal over the two years. In  simple words, JIF is developed to indicate the “average impact” of papers published in  the journal. Although there are several flaws to this association – including the lack of  consideration of document types, the inflating impact of self-citations, disciplinary dif‐ ferences in citation levels, the short length of citation window, dependency on the success  of an individual article, and the like (Sugimoto & Larivière, 2018, pp. 93–96) – this is  the best-known practice for journals, and this factor is commonly used to quantify the  quality of a specific journal. H-index was developed as an author-level metric to measure  both the productivity and impact of an individual researcher. This measure, therefore,  involves both the total number of publications and citations, where researchers have an  index of h when they have at least h papers with h citations each. Evidently, this measure  depends heavily on the number of publications, seniority of the researcher, collaborative  publication activities, and discipline. Despite these limitations, this measure has gained  popularity and is wrongly associated with researcher performance.  These (flawed) associations of citation-based metrics with scientific quality have  given rise to the importance of these metrics in the scientific community, where they are  used frequently for decisions on hiring, promotion, tenure, remuneration, and the like.  Self-citations could thus play an important role, as they contribute in increasing citationbased metrics. Author self-citations and self-references occur when an author receives a  citation from or makes a reference to another study written by the same author. Self-cita‐ tions are made, ideally, to expand on earlier work of the author and to further research in  a specific topic domain. However, as citation-based measures have gained in popularity 200 Gita Ghiasi  for evaluation purposes, self-citations are sometimes applied in capacities beyond their  original intent. They could also be used to artificially inflate an author’s citation counts,  manipulating the scientific reward system and thus influencing the career trajectory of  the researchers.  Citation practices are not neutral and objective. These practices are affected by cul‐ tural and social behaviors that differ between disciplines, and their use for evaluation  purposes has been heavily criticized (MacRoberts & MacRoberts, 2018). Moreover, cita‐ tion measures are likely to be subject to the Matthew effect in the sense that highly-cited  researchers are more likely to garner more citations than lower-cited ones, leaving lesserknown researchers underrecognized or even invisible (Fowler & Aksnes, 2007; Merton,  1988). W omen, lamentably, are not immune to this systematic effect, and several studies  have shown that women receive fewer citations than men, even after controlling for  authorship order (Larivière et al., 2013), journal impact factor and field (Larivière &  Sugimoto, 2017), first author seniority, number of references, total number of authors  (Caplar et al., 2017), affiliation, tenure status, methods, and context (Maliniak et al.,  2013). These findings, on their own, are of great importance as they could testify to the  under-recognition of work of women in science, despite recent progress toward gender  equity and equality in science.  Along these lines, men’s higher likelihood to self-cite (Ghiasi et al. 2016; King et  al. 2017) and gender homophily in citations (Ghiasi, Mongeon, et al., 2018; Potthoff  & Zimmermann, 2017) could also contribute to gender differences in citations. When  comparing self-citation practices by gender, men tend to cite their own publications at a  higher rate than women, and their publications receive more citations from their own  papers than those of women. However, women’s first-authored papers receive higher  citation rates from papers written by their immediate co-authors (Ghiasi et al., 2016).  This reveals that although women do not self-promote their own work as much as men,  their work is promoted at a higher rate by their immediate co-authors. In addition,  gender differences in citation practices are evident across all disciplines, primarily re‐ flected in “gender homophily” in citations (Ghiasi, Mongeon, et al., 2018; Potthoff &  Zimmermann, 2017). This means that men tend to cite men more often than women  cite men and vice versa. Gender homophily in citations is persistent even after excluding  self-citations and controlling for research field and subject similarity (Ghiasi, Mongeon,  et al., 2018), which, combined with the fact that men represent more than 70 % of total  authorship (Larivière et al. 2013), could contribute greatly to lower citation rates for  women.  On another important note, across all disciplines and regardless of authorship posi‐ tions (first or last authorship), the gender gap in relative citation impact is higher than  the gender gap in relative impact factor of journals where maleand female-authored  publications are published. In some fields, including earth and space sciences, biology,  social sciences, and engineering, women first-authors publish their papers in higher IF  journals but receive lower citations from their community (Larivière & Sugimoto, 2017). Gender Barriers to Scientific Rewards 201  When a paper is published in a higher impact factor journal, by the very definition of  impact factor, it is expected that the paper will receive higher citation rates on average.  However, this is not the case for females’ first-authored papers. This is often explained  by the Matilda effect in science (systematic under-recognition of women’s contributions  to science) in the sense that women’s publications receive lower recognition than what is  expected (Ghiasi et al., 2015). Gender differences in citations could have a direct impact  on the h-index score of an author and contribute to gender inequality in evaluation, hir‐ ing, promotion, and resource and salary allocation. It is evident that the h-index is double  biased when considering the systematic biases in citations and authorship practices.  These results are of great importance as they show how the application of citationbased metrics could contribute to the persistence of gender inequality in science and lead  to the under-recognition of women’s contributions to science. Use of these measures will  remain a barrier to gender equality in science unless accompanied by the development  and introduction of gender-equitable strategies and practices.  5. Collaborations Scientific research is a collective effort – the result of interactions that are informal (e.g.,  exchange of ideas and information at meetings, symposia, and conferences) or formal  (e.g., co-supervision and co-application on a grant or funded project). Despite the various  forms that collaborations take, the most observable, quantifiable, and measurable collab‐ orations identified in the reward system of science are those that result in a scientific  publication or a patent. The former are referred to as co-authorship collaborations,  and the latter, co-inventorship collaborations. In this sense, a manuscript or a patent is  considered a result of a collaborative endeavor when more than one entity (i.e., scientists,  institutions, cities, countries, etc.) are listed in the article or patent byline, providing a  basis for collaboration indicators. There has been a substantial increase in co-authorship  and co-inventorship collaborations as research has become more complex and interdis‐ ciplinary. Moreover, increased mobility, technological infrastructure, and cross-national  grants and funding programs facilitate a higher rate of research collaborations (Hara et  al., 2003). Collaboration indicators can be defined beyond individuals, and be aggregated  at the levels of departments, research groups, institutions, cities, institutional sectors, and  countries.  These collaboration indicators are often defined in two groups (Sugimoto & Lariv‐ ière, 2018, p. 59). The first group reflects the representation of various entities and is  defined as the share of articles or patents in which more than one entity is represented.  One of the main collaboration indicators is engagement in international collaborations –  an activity that is increasingly rewarded in research evaluation and governmental eval‐ uation systems. This measure is shown to be associated with the visibility and citation  impact of the research work (Chinchilla-Rodríguez et al., 2019; Glänzel & Schubert, 202 Gita Ghiasi  2001; Schmoch & Schubert, 2008). The second group indicates team size and is often  defined as the average or the median number of entities involved in a paper or patent. The  latter indicator needs to be applied with caution as it is subject to outliers and disciplinary  differences.  T o better understand relations and positions of entities within scientific communi‐ ties, social network analysis (SNA) techniques have been extensively used to map coauthorship and co-inventorship collaborations. In these networks, each node represents  a researcher, and two nodes are connected when two researchers collaborate with one  another on at least one publication or patent. The weight of each link (also called “edge”)  represents the number of papers (or patents) on which the two researchers are listed as  co-authors (or co-inventors). SNA measures (explicitly centrality measures) are also used  to explain interactions and the position of scientists / entities in their network within  a scientific system. It has been shown that researchers associated with higher degree  and betweenness centrality measures – i.e., those with a higher number of collaborators  and those who control the inflow / outflow of knowledge between clusters of scientists,  respectively – are directly linked to the higher research productivity (Cainelli et al.,  2015). Clustering coefficient (CC) is another important measure that represents how  well-connected the direct neighbors of a node are. The higher the CC, the more likely  it is that neighbors of the node can still collaborate with one another when the node is  removed from the network. Therefore, a higher CC is associated with a less important  position within the network.  Collaboration and research production are evidently interwoven within the scientific  system (Fanelli & Larivière, 2016). It has been shown that highly productive researchers  (i.e., researchers with the highest number of papers) also collaborate the most (Lee &  Bozeman, 2005). However, this could also show that collaboration measures are subject  to the “Matthew effect,” meaning that higher research productivity brings more collabo‐ ration opportunities to a researcher, and more collaborations result in higher production  of papers (or patents). However, this might also mean that the gender gap in productivity  and collaboration interest (Knobloch-W esterwick et al., 2013) could exclude women  from this virtuous circle, and could systematically leave them disadvantaged and discon‐ nected from the scientific network.  Regarding the collaboration patterns of women in their scientific networks, it has  been found that lack of research collaboration, along with childcare, is a primary con‐ tributor to gender differences in scientific publishing (Kyvik & T eigen, 1996). When  coupled with the lower inclusion of women in co-authorship collaborations of highly  productive researchers (Ghiasi et al., 2021), this tends to perpetuate a vicious circle  of lower research productivity and collaboration that could present dire obstacles for  women, excluding them from co-authorship collaboration teams.  Researchers, regardless of their gender, form their collaborations mainly with men  (Bozeman & Corley, 2004; Ghiasi et al., 2015; Knobloch-W esterwick & Glynn, 2013).  This is inevitable, given that women are highly underrepresented in science. However, Gender Barriers to Scientific Rewards 203  studies show that gender homophily also exists in co-authorship collaboration patterns:  W omen include a higher share of women in their collaboration teams than men do, and  men include a higher share of men in their collaboration teams than women (Ghiasi et  al., 2015; Ozel et al., 2014). Although women form more gender-balanced teams, their  collaboration ties with other women are weak, and they are more likely to repeat their  collaborations with men (Ghiasi et al., 2015). Often, this is associated with the fact  that junior female researchers include more women in their co-authorship teams than  women senior faculty (Ghiasi et al., 2021). Interestingly, when women collaborate with  women, their chances of receiving tenure are greater than when they collaborate with  men (Sarsons, 2017). Policies are needed to support these collaborations and provide  incentives for women to maintain these relationships as they climb the academic ladder  and dive further into the male-dominated scientific system.  Of total scientific publications, 35 % are written by only male authors, while 6 %  include only female authors. Citation impact is highest when articles contain both male  and female authors and is lowest when an article is written exclusively by women (Lar‐ ivière & Sugimoto, 2017). This could be a direct result of gender differences in various  types of collaboration, in which women are engaged more in domestic than international  collaborations (Larivière et al., 2013). Since involvement in international collabora‐ tion is correlated with higher productivity and visibility of a researcher, women’s lower  engagement in international collaborations can play to their disadvantage, and these  associations definitely hinder women’s academic career development (Aksnes, Piro, et  al., 2019).  Using SNA analysis and mapping the positions of women in their networks of collab‐ oration, it is shown that researchers who are involved with mixed-gender teams are more  productive and central in their network (Ghiasi et al., 2015). Moreover, women who  have the same degree centrality (i.e., a researcher’s total number of collaborators) as their  male peers include more central and productive researchers in their collaboration teams  (Ghiasi et al., 2015). Researchers with a high degree centrality are seen as collaborative  and popular, and are associated with prominent positions because they might have and  provide greater access to information and resources. However, women might need to put  extra effort into forming collaborations with prominent researchers in a male-dominated  scientific system, as prominent researchers (mostly men) tend to collaborate mostly with  men. In this regard, women are more likely to work harder to reach the same position and  to access the same resources as their male peers. Moreover, in these networks, the average  clustering coefficient is higher for women, which highlights the vulnerable position of  women in their scientific networks. This measure shows that the researchers with whom  women collaborate are well-connected and are able to communicate with one another  even if women are removed from their scientific network. Concerning gender inequality  in science, these studies, in summary, conclude that women need to work harder than  men to occupy central positions in their scientific network (Ghiasi et al., 2015; Ghiasi,  Harsh, et al., 2018). Despite this, their position in the network is vulnerable, and net‐204 Gita Ghiasi  works are formed around them such that their exclusion might not highly affect the flow  and transmission of knowledge. It is therefore of utmost importance to reflect on these  concerns and introduce policy mechanisms to incorporate more support in funding and  research agendas for gender-responsive collaboration and supervisory team building.  6. Conclusion This chapter provides an overview of the primary elements of the reward system of  science, namely authorship, inventorship, citations, and collaborations. It reviews var‐ ious bibliometric indicators associated with these elements from a gender perspective,  suggesting that these indicators need to be applied with caution because their increased  use for evaluative purposes could create circumstances for gender inequality in science.  These reward elements sustain the Matthew effect and reinforce one another in a  virtuous cycle, where authorship and inventorship productivity, citation impact, and col‐ laboration rates of researchers are positively associated. For example, highly productive  researchers are more likely to be of collaboration interest and to have more collaborators,  and thus are more prone to become involved in papers with higher citation impact.  However, gender differences in authorship, inventorship, citation, and collaboration  practices can turn this virtuous cycle into a vicious cycle for women.  The use of measures developed from these elements for research evaluation can leave  women disadvantaged and hinder their career progression in science unless accompanied  by strategic gender-equitable considerations. It is therefore of great importance to de‐ velop and implement policies to change current practices in the reward system of science  and reinforce a more equitable context for research evaluation.  References Abt, H. A. (2007). The future of single-authored papers. Scientometrics , 73(3), 353–358.  https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s1119200718229  Acs, Z. J., & Audretsch, D. B. (1989). Patents innovative activity. Eastern Economic Journal ,  15(4), 373–376.  Aksnes, D. W., Langfeldt, L., & W outers, P. (2019). Citations, citation indicators, and research  quality: An overview of basic concepts and theories. Sage Open , 9(1), 2158244019829575.  Aksnes, D. W., Piro, F. N., & Rørstad, K. (2019). Gender gaps in international research collabo‐ ration: A bibliometric approach. Scientometrics , 120 (2), 747–774. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11192019031553  Barlow, J., Stephens, P. A., Bode, M., Cadotte, M. W., Lucas, K., Newton, E., Nuñez, M. A., &  Pettorelli, N. (2018). On the extinction of the single-authored paper: The causes and conse‐ quences of increasingly collaborative applied ecological research. Journal of Applied Ecology ,  55(1), 1–4. https://doi. org/ 10. 1111/ 13652664. 13040 Gender Barriers to Scientific Rewards 205  Berryman, S. E. (1983). Who Will Do Science?: Minority and Female Attainment of Science and  Mathematics Degrees: Trends and Causes . Rockefeller Foundation.  Bozeman, B., & Corley, E. (2004). Scientists’ collaboration strategies: Implications for scientific  and technical human capital. Research Policy , 33(4), 599–616.  Cainelli, G., Maggioni, M. A., Uberti, T. E., & de Felice, A. (2015). The strength of strong ties:  How co-authorship affect productivity of academic economists? Scientometrics , 102 (1), 673– 699. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s1119201414215  Caplar, N., Tacchella, S., & Birrer, S. (2017). Quantitative evaluation of gender bias in astro‐ nomical publications from citation counts. Nature Astronomy , 1(6), 1–5. https://doi. org/  10. 1038/ s415500170141  Chinchilla-Rodríguez, Z., Sugimoto, C. R., & Larivière, V. (2019). Follow the leader: On the  relationship between leadership and scholarly impact in international collaborations. PLOS  ONE , 14(6), e0218309. https://doi. org/ 10. 1371/ journal. pone. 0218309  Ding, W. W., Murray, F., & Stuart, T. E. (2006). Gender differences in patenting in the aca‐ demic life sciences. Science , 313 (5787), 665–667.  Elsevier. (2020). The Researcher Journey Through a Gender Lens . https://www. elsevier. com/  connect/ genderreport  Fanelli, D., & Larivière, V. (2016). Researchers’ Individual Publication Rate Has Not Increased  in a Century. PLOS ONE , 11(3), e0149504. https://doi. org/ 10. 1371/ journal. pone. 0149504  Fowler, J. H., & Aksnes, D. W. (2007). Does self-citation pay? Scientometrics , 72(3), 427–437.  https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s1119200717772  Ganco, M., Ziedonis, R. H., & Agarwal, R. (2015). More stars stay, but the brightest ones still  leave: Job hopping in the shadow of patent enforcement. Strategic Management Journal ,  36(5), 659–685. https://doi. org/ 10. 1002/ smj. 2239  Gasparyan, A. Y., Ayvazyan, L., & Kitas, G. D. (2013). Authorship problems in scholarly jour‐ nals: Considerations for authors, peer reviewers and editors. Rheumatology International ,  33(2), 277–284.  Ge, C., Huang, K.-W., & Png, I. P. L. (2016). Engineer / scientist careers: Patents, online profiles,  and misclassification bias: Online Career Profiles and Misclassification. Strategic Manage‐ ment Journal , 37(1), 232–253. https://doi. org/ 10. 1002/ smj. 2460  Ghiasi, G., Beaudry, C., Larivière, V., St-Pierre, C., Schiffauerova, A., & Harsh, M. (2021). Who  profits from the Canadian nanotechnology reward system? Implications for gender-respon‐ sible innovation. Scientometrics. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s1119202104022w  Ghiasi, G., Harsh, M., & Schiffauerova, A. (2018). Inequality and collaboration patterns in  Canadian nanotechnology: Implications for pro-poor and gender-inclusive policy. Sciento‐ metrics , 115 (2), 785–815. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s1119201827012  Ghiasi, G., Larivière, V., & Sugimoto, C. R. (2015). On the Compliance of W omen Engineers  with a Gendered Scientific System. PloS One , 10(12), e0145931.  Ghiasi, G., Larivière, V., & Sugimoto, C. R. (2016). Gender differences in synchronous and  diachronous self-citations. Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Science and  T echnology Indicators, V alencia, Spain . http://crc. ebsi. umontreal. ca/ files/ sites/ 60/ 2016/ 09/  Ghiasietal. _ STI2016. pdf  Ghiasi, G., Mongeon, P., Sugimoto, C., & Larivière, V. (2018). Gender homophily in citations.  23rd International Conference on Science and T echnology Indicators (STI 2018), Septem‐ ber 12–14, 2018, Leiden, The Netherlands .  Glänzel, W., & Schubert, A. (2001). Double effort= double impact? A critical view at interna‐ tional co-authorship in chemistry. Scientometrics , 50(2), 199–214. 206 Gita Ghiasi  Göktepe-Hulten, D., & Mahagaonkar, P. (2010). Inventing and patenting activities of scientists:  In the expectation of money or reputation? The Journal of T echnology Transfer , 35(4), 401– 423. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s1096100991262  Hagedoorn, J., & Cloodt, M. (2003). Measuring innovative performance: Is there an advantage  in using multiple indicators? Research Policy , 32(8), 1365–1379. https://doi. org/ 10. 1016/  S00487333(02)001373  Hara, N., Solomon, P., Kim, S.-L., & Sonnenwald, D. H. (2003). An emerging view of scientific  collaboration: Scientists’ perspectives on collaboration and factors that impact collaboration.  Journal of the American Society for Information Science and T echnology , 54(10), 952–965.  Haustein, S., & Larivière, V. (2015). The Use of Bibliometrics for Assessing Research: Possi‐ bilities, Limitations and Adverse Effects. In I. M. W elpe, J. W ollersheim, S. Ringelhan, & M.  Osterloh (Eds.), Incentives and Performance: Governance of Research Organizations  (pp. 121– 139). Springer International Publishing. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 9783319097855_ 8  Holman, L., Stuart-Fox, D., & Hauser, C. E. (2018). The gender gap in science: How long until  women are equally represented? PLOS Biology , 16(4), e2004956. https://doi. org/ 10. 1371/  journal. pbio. 2004956  Hunt, J., Garant, J.-P., Herman, H., & Munroe, D. J. (2013). Why are women underrepresented  amongst patentees? Research Policy , 42(4), 831–843. https://doi. org/ 10. 1016/ j. respol. 2012.  11. 004  Hymowitz, C., & Schellhardt, T. D. (1986). The glass ceiling: Why women can’t seem to break  the invisible barrier that blocks them from the top jobs. The W all Street Journal , 57(D1), D4– D5.  Jensen, K., Kovács, B., & Sorenson, O. (2018). Gender differences in obtaining and maintaining  patent rights. Nature Biotechnology , 36, 307–309. https://doi. org/ 10. 1038/ nbt. 4120  King, M. M., Bergstrom, C. T., Correll, S. J., Jacquet, J., & W est, J. D. (2017). Men Set  Their Own Cites High: Gender and Self-citation across Fields and over Time. Socius , 3,  2378023117738903. https://doi. org/ 10. 1177/ 2378023117738903  Knobloch-W esterwick, S., & Glynn, C. J. (2013). The Matilda Effect-Role Congruity Effects  on Scholarly Communication: A Citation Analysis of Communication Research and Journal  of Communication Articles. Communication Research , 40(1), 3–26. Scopus. https://doi. org/  10. 1177/ 0093650211418339  Knobloch-W esterwick, S., Glynn, C. J., & Huge, M. (2013). The Matilda Effect in Science  Communication: An Experiment on Gender Bias in Publication Quality Perceptions and  Collaboration Interest. Science Communication , 35(5), 603–625. Scopus. https://doi. org/ 10.  1177/ 1075547012472684  Kuld, L., & O’Hagan, J. (2018). Rise of multi-authored papers in economics: Demise of the  ‘lone star’ and why? Scientometrics , 114 (3), 1207–1225. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11192 01725883  Kyvik, S., & T eigen, M. (1996). Child care, research collaboration, and gender differences in  scientific productivity. Science, T echnology & Human V alues , 21(1), 54–71.  Larivière, V., Desrochers, N., Macaluso, B., Mongeon, P., Paul-Hus, A., & Sugimoto, C. R.  (2016). Contributorship and division of labor in knowledge production. Social Studies of  Science , 46(3), 417–435. https://doi. org/ 10. 1177/ 0306312716650046  Larivière, V., Ni, C., Gingras, Y., Cronin, B., & Sugimoto, C. R. (2013). Bibliometrics:  Global gender disparities in science. Nature , 504 (7479), 211–213. https://doi. org/ 10. 1038/  504211a Gender Barriers to Scientific Rewards 207  Larivière, V., & Sugimoto, C. R. (2017). The end of gender disparities in science? If only it were  true. . . CWTS . https://www. cwts. nl:443/ blog? article= nq2z294& title= theendofgender disparitiesinscienceifonlyitweretrue  Lee, S., & Bozeman, B. (2005). The impact of research collaboration on scientific productivity.  Social Studies of Science , 35(5), 673–702.  Lissoni, F., Montobbio, F., & Zirulia, L. (2013). Inventorship and authorship as attribution  rights: An enquiry into the economics of scientific credit. Journal of Economic Behavior &  Organization , 95, 49–69.  MacRoberts, M. H., & MacRoberts, B. R. (2018). The mismeasure of science: Citation analysis.  Journal of the Association for Information Science and T echnology , 69(3), 474–482. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ asi. 23970  Maliniak, D., Powers, R., & W alter, B. F. (2013). The gender citation gap in international  relations. International Organization , 67(04), 889–922.  Mattsson, P., Sundberg, C. J., & Laget, P. (2011). Is correspondence reflected in the author  position? A bibliometric study of the relation between corresponding author and byline  position. Scientometrics , 87(1), 99–105. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s1119201003109  Merton, R. K. (1957). Social theory and social structure . Free Press.  Merton, R. K. (1968). The Matthew Effect in Science: The reward and communication systems  of science are considered. Science , 159 (3810), 56–63. https://doi. org/ 10. 1126/ science. 159.  3810. 56  Merton, R. K. (1988). The Matthew effect in science, II: Cumulative advantage and the symbol‐ ism of intellectual property. Isis, 606–623.  Mongeon, P. (2017). Is there a Matilda effect in academic patenting? Metrics 2017 . W ork‐ shop on Informetric and Scientometric Research (Sig / Met). https://www. asist. org/ SIG/  SIGMET/ wpcontent/ uploads/ 2017/ 11/ sigmet2017_ paper_ 11. pdf  Moore, M. T., & Griffin, B. W. (2006). Identification of factors that influence authorship  name placement and decisions to collaborate in peer-reviewed, education-related publica‐ tions. Studies in Educational Evaluation , 32(2), 125–135.  Murray, D., Siler, K., Larivière, V., Chan, W. M., Collings, A. M., Raymond, J., & Sugimoto, C.  R. (2019). Author-Reviewer Homophily in Peer Review. BioRxiv , 400515. https://doi. org/  10. 1101/ 400515  Murray, F., & Graham, L. (2007). Buying science and selling science: Gender differences in the  market for commercial science. Industrial and Corporate Change , 16(4), 657–689.  Nahata, M. C. (2008). Tips for Writing and Publishing an Article. Annals of Pharmacotherapy ,  42(2), 273–277. https://doi. org/ 10. 1345/ aph. 1K616  Ozel, B., Kretschmer, H., & Kretschmer, T. (2014). Co-authorship pair distribution patterns by  gender. Scientometrics , 98(1), 703–723. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s111920131145y  Potthoff, M., & Zimmermann, F. (2017). Is there a gender-based fragmentation of communica‐ tion science? An investigation of the reasons for the apparent gender homophily in citations.  Scientometrics , 112 (2), 1047–1063. https://doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s1119201723920  Rosenbaum, K. (2017). Different from Discipline to Discipline: Diversity in the Scholarly Publica‐ tion System . Zenodo. https://doi. org/ 10. 5281/ zenodo. 1003219  Rossiter, M. W. (1993). The Matthew Matilda effect in science. Social Studies of Science , 23(2),  325–341.  Sarsons, H. (2017). Recognition for Group W ork: Gender Differences in Academia. American  Economic Review , 107 (5), 141–145. https://doi. org/ 10. 1257/ aer. p20171126 208 Gita Ghiasi  Schmoch, U., & Schubert, T. (2008). Are international co-publications an indicator for quality  of scientific research? Scientometrics , 74(3), 361–377.  Stephan, P. E., & El-Ganainy, A. (2007). The entrepreneurial puzzle: Explaining the gender gap.  The Journal of T echnology Transfer , 32(5), 475–487.  Sugimoto, C. R., & Larivière, V. (2018). Measuring Research: What Everyone Needs to Know .  Oxford University Press.  Sugimoto, C. R., Ni, C., W est, J. D., & Larivière, V. (2015). The Academic Advantage: Gender  Disparities in Patenting. PLOS ONE , 10(5), e0128000. https://doi. org/ 10. 1371/ journal.  pone. 0128000  UNESCO. (2003). A Guide to Human Rights. Institutions, Standards, Procedures . United Na‐ tions Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.  W altman, L. (2012). An empirical analysis of the use of alphabetical authorship in scientific  publishing. Journal of Informetrics , 6(4), 700–711.  W ang, L. L., Stanovsky, G., W eihs, L., & Etzioni, O. (2019). Gender trends in computer science  authorship. ArXiv Preprint ArXiv:1906.07883 .  W est, J. D., Jacquet, J., King, M. M., Correll, S. J., & Bergstrom, C. T. (2013). The Role of Gen‐ der in Scholarly Authorship. PLOS ONE , 8(7), e66212. https://doi. org/ 10. 1371/ journal.  pone. 0066212  Whittington, K. B., & Smith-Doerr, L. (2008). W omen inventors in context: Disparities in  patenting across academia and industry. Gender & Society , 22(2), 194–218.  WIPO. (2008). Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic W orks . W orld Intel‐ lectual Property Organization. Diversity Mentoring Mission Statements  A Case Study of a Participatory Approach  Susanne Spintig & T anja T ajmel  1. Introduction At universities, mission statements are important instruments to represent the political  attitudes, the development, as well as the vision of a project, and to provide guidelines  to act accordingly. This also applies to the project Club Lise , a mentorship program for  girls and women in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics). Named  after physicist Lise Meitner, Club Lise was founded in 2005 within the framework of the  Project PROMISE (Promotion of Migrants in Science Education) and with the financial  support of the European Union and Germany’s Employers’ Association in the Metal  and Electrical Engineering Industries (Deutsche Gesamtmetall). The first mentorship  program of its kind in Europe, Clubs Lise were established at universities in four differ‐ ent countries (Germany, T urkey, Austria, and Bosnia-Herzegovina) between 2005 and  2007. The program brought together students and mentors from countries of origin  with students and mentors of countries of residence to address questions of availability,  accessibility, acceptability, and adaptability of science education at secondary and postsecondary levels. Students of grades 10–12 are paired with graduate students, scientists,  and professionals from science and engineering fields who serve as mentors (see also  Tajmel & Starl, 2009). In 2011, Club Lise expanded to become the Lise Mentoring  Network, extending its mentorship activities across Germany. The mission statement  of Club Lise (Spintig & Tajmel, 2017) is based on the right to science education, and  the project is grounded in the concept that structural conditions lead to unequal chances  to access education for different groups, such as girls and women with migration back‐ grounds (in German “Migrationshintergrund”).  For this chapter, a special focus lies on a general problem encountered by many  projects and measures when addressing a specific group that has been identified as  marginalized: the identification and characterization of the target group itself, and the  challenge in addressing and counteracting social difference without reinforcing differ‐ ence (cf. Mecheril & Plößer, 2011).  In the following, we present the steps of a participatory process of discussing and  addressing this issue, as well as revising Club Lise’s mission statement together with Club  Lise mentors. The outcome of this process is an addendum to the original mission state‐ ment of Club Lise that includes reflection questions that help to translate the mission  statement into non-discriminatory mentoring practice. 210 Susanne Spintig & Tanja Tajmel  2. Identifying the T arget Group The target group supported by Club Lise is “women with a migration background.”  There are three aspects important to this limitation that need further explanation: First,  when addressing women, gender is a relevant category. It is important to ask which  women are going to be addressed exactly, where the line between target and non-target  group lies, and what attributions are associated with these women. Second, when cate‐ gorizing based on migration background, the question of where gender and migration  intersect also becomes relevant in this context. And third, it must be questioned how  this target group can actually be supported in order to empower members individually  and thus counteract disadvantage in the STEM context in a diversity-sensitive way.  With our participatory approach to further developing a mission statement for a  diversity mentoring program in STEM, we assume that the mentors, as bearers of the  mission, must not only understand but also help to shape it in order to successfully trans‐ late guidelines into practice as mentors. Therefore, the updated version of the mission  statement includes the experiences and wishes of the mentors. The outcomes reflect an  agreement that certain basic principles, presented in the first part, were not negotiable in  this participatory process.  3. Club Lise’s Core Principles Three principles constitute the core of Club Lise: (i) the human rights approach and the  associated goal of increasing the individual empowerment of the mentees, (ii) the inter‐ sectional perspective and the associated power-critical deconstruction of categories of  difference, including their attributions, and (iii) the discrimination-critical perspective  including confrontation with discriminatory structures.  (i) Club Lise is conceptualized as a diversity mentoring program. In this context, the  term diversity  does not stand solely for “diversity and its appreciation” or “diversity as a  human resource,” which entails the notion of exploitability. Instead, Club Lise’s diver‐ sity mentoring stands for individual empowerment by acknowledging and considering  diverse realities and experiences of discrimination (cf. Spintig & Tajmel, 2017). This  entails measures that expand mentees’ self-determination as well as self-actualization  perspectives by linking them not predominantly to economic purposes (e.g., to increase  the employability of mentees) but to lifeworlds (taking into account the individual  wishes and needs) of the mentees. Accordingly, their successes cannot be quantified by  enrollment or employment data, but only evaluated qualitatively by and together with  the individuals themselves.  (ii) Diversity is considered a product of socially constructed categorizations with  attributions (cf. Baer, Bittner, & Göttsche, 2010) that cause unequal power relations and  access (see also Tajmel in this book). Thus, the underrepresentation of “women with a Diversity Mentoring Mission Statements 211  migration background” in STEM is not attributed to a “lack of talent” as a group-specific  characteristic, but to institutional decision-making processes and structures. In addition,  the process of addressing  based on categories of difference – such as mentoring for girls   with a migration background – is problematized. Here a dilemma arises: On the one hand,  there is a need to name disadvantages in order to counteract them but, on the other hand,  doing so runs a risk of confirming differences as essentially and naturally given. Thus, it  is important to be critical and reflective when invoking categories of difference, and to  always weigh the positive and negative effects associated with such categorizations. From  an intersectional perspective, one must always be critically aware that there are no groupspecific characteristics such as the interests or potentials of supposedly homogeneous  groups such as girls or migrants, and that these supposedly group-specific characteristics  do not automatically culminate in an assumed need for support (cf. Mecheril & Vorrink,  2012).  (iii) Supposed “deficits” of the mentees and associated feelings of personal failure are  exposed as non-fits between habitus and structure (Eickhoff & Schmitt, 2016). In the  case of mentees, these are the discriminatory structures of the educational institutions  school and university. From this perspective, mentoring can be seen as an instrument  that can create fit. For example, mentors can provide access to their research and pass  on important experiences so that mentees with a non-academic habitus are prepared  for academic structures. With habitus-structure reflexivity, mentees – as well as their  mentors – gain new self-understandings of their and others’ positions, discriminatory  structures, and new possibilities for action.  As far as the discriminatory structures themselves are concerned, however, mentoring  also has its limitations. Although it has the potential to empower mentees and reflex‐ ively prepare them for certain structures with regard to diversity and to possibly even  give impetus to the surrounding professional cultures, it cannot change discriminatory  structures per se.  4. Club Lise’s Mission Club Lise’s original mission statement (Spintig & Tajmel, 2017) is structured according  to the following three areas:  The role of the mentors  included dealing with experiences of discrimination, reflecting  on one’s position(s) in social space, developing knowledge of construction processes  of categories and intersectionality, and focusing on accompanying mentees individually  without prescribing one’s own career.  The values in interaction with each other  entail the need to provide a safe space where  no one is forced, but where every experience can be shared and criticism and problems  can be addressed openly. 212 Susanne Spintig & Tanja Tajmel  The goals of diversity-oriented mentoring  included highlighting the potential and per‐ sonal strengths of mentees and mentors, encouraging mentees to act in a self-determined  manner, and broadening their perspectives for self-realization.  Club Lise mission statement (2017)Role of the mentors– The mentors accompany the mentees in a supportive manner without prescribing  solutions or perspectives. They respond to the mentees’ personal needs and wishes.  – Mentors reflect on their own careers and do not expect them to be copied.  – The reflection on careers is in turn used for joint reflection on opportunities.  – Mentees should find their own way without being pushed in a certain direction.  – The mentors act as a network and faciliate access to the university and industry through  internships, visits to workplaces, and personal discussions.  Coaching of the mentors:  – Mentors receive training in considering intersectionality and understanding construc‐ tion processes of categories, and learn to systematically reflect on them.  – Mentors reflect on their own values and norms as well as their own social position(s),  which are also determined by lines of difference. Values in interaction  with each other– Categories of difference are understood as constructed , and diversity is conceptualized as  the intersection of categories of difference.  – The coordination / management of the project provides a safe space to talk about  attribution processes and possible stereotypes.  – Conversations about diversity are encouraged and guided by specific diversity training  tools.  – No one is forced to reveal anything about themselves or to answer questions.  – The goal should be to move out of perceived inequality, reduce any insecurities, and  find common ground.  – Mentoring relationships are characterized by a mutual exchange of knowledge and  experience at eye level.  – Experiences, wishes, views, and ideas are taken seriously.  – Criticism and problems may be addressed openly. If necessary, the coordination takes  over conflict management. Goals of diversityoriented mentoring– Diversity-appropriate mentoring should focus on commonalities.  – During the mentoring relationship, diversity categories and the associated attribution  processes are targeted for deconstruction. Content-related discussions in the context of  joint scientific projects should be the focus of the mentoring relationship.  – Focus lies on the potentials and personal strengths of mentees as well as mentors. With  the support of the mentors, the mentees are encouraged to act in a self-determined  manner.  – Diversity mentoring broadens self-fulfillment perspectives as well as the spectrum of  study and career choices for students.  T able 1: Club Lise mission statement in its original form (cf. Spintig & T ajmel, 2017).Diversity Mentoring Mission Statements 213  5. Participatory Process In 2018, in a participatory approach together with mentors, the viability of the mission  statement was tested based on the mentors’ experiences. A coaching process provided an  adequate framework for this purpose. In a safe space, participants expressed experiences,  wishes, suggestions, and criticisms. There was a particular need for discussion related to  the conceptualization of the target group. The following gives an overview of the main  topics and the discussions.  5.1 About the T arget Group The target group of Club Lise is women with a migration background because persons  addressed as such are strongly underrepresented in STEM fields. This sounds logical, but  a demarcation of target group and non-target group on the basis of binary-constructed  categories of difference such as gender  or origin  must be viewed critically. This is because  non-reflective addressing of the target group as schoolgirls , women,  and migrants  assumes  a group-specific need for support that cannot exist in this way. At the same time, address‐ ing the target group according to categories of difference can exclude people who are in  inferior positions precisely because of their gender identity or origin and who therefore  need support.  There was discussion about how Club Lise could solve the dilemma of addressing.  Drawing boundaries based on binary-constructed categories of difference such as gender  or origin was found to be insensitive to diversity. However, the mentors also communi‐ cated that Club Lise should not lose sight of the target group and should primarily reach  those who are actually affected by exclusions.  Results of the discussion were practical proposals for solutions: Although the pro‐ gram should primarily address women, transgender persons should also be invited to  participate in the program indicated by the gender asterisk after “schoolgirls*.” A migra‐ tion or refugee background is not a condition for participation, but Club Lise advertises  predominantly at relevant schools with a high proportion of migrants. The only access  criterion decided upon is interest in STEM, which makes access low-threshold. In addi‐ tion, attention is paid to diverse lifestyles and career pathways among the mentors, who  represent diversity and address the target group without a categorical label.  5.2 On the Role of Mentors There was agreement that a diversity mentoring program should not be about mentors  focusing on their own career pathways; however, reflecting on them is essential, and this  includes mentors knowing their own resources and capital well and being transparent  about the position from which they speak to mentees. The key term is diversity discrep‐214 Susanne Spintig & Tanja Tajmel  ancy (cf. ZtG, 2016), because when reflecting on careers, it is crucial to know one’s own  realization possibilities and those of the mentees, as well as to put them into perspective.  Accordingly, the mentors came to the conclusion to offer their careers as examples  for reflection and adaptation and not to impose them on the mentees.  Further, the mentors wanted to share their identification and enthusiasm for STEM  and to provide a self-image that women belong and are successful in STEM. The mission  of the mentors – to provide women with access points in STEM – was based above all on  the fact that STEM affects a great deal of our lives and is therefore very powerful. W omen  are thus doubly disadvantaged: they have little influence on the design of technologies  and, as a result, they have few advantages in the use of these technologies. The mentors  agreed that they would like to act as a network for orientation and advice and create  access points in STEM.  5.3 On the Values of Interaction with Each Other Mentoring relationships should take place on equal terms so that a mutual exchange of  knowledge and experience is possible and goals can always be renegotiated.  Experiences of discrimination should be given a trusting space where they are taken  seriously and discussed together. The aim is not to develop avoidance strategies but to  analyze the reasons for these experiences. A sociological analysis (hermeneutics) with  which conflicts such as discrimination are traced back as non-fits between the habitus  and the structure and not, for example, to a supposed lack of ability of the person  concerned, is very helpful (Schmitt, 2006; 2014)  Pointing out diverse life paths should inspire mentees to go their own way. The  group discussed how experiences of failure and supposed weaknesses (stumbling blocks,  disadvantages, fears) are important to empower mentees and to be authentic as a mentor.  The mentors collectively came to the conclusion that they want to support the  mentees without prescribing solutions or perspectives or expecting their career pathways  to be emulated. The mentees’ lifeworlds and personal needs should always be at the center  of the mentoring relationship, and the goals of the mentorship should always be renego‐ tiable. Personal goals should be put behind those of the mentees: mentees’ decisions, even  those that appear contrary to the mentors’ experiences or proposed solutions, should  be accepted and acted upon. In addition, mentees are not expected to be grateful or to  adopt the experiences, proposed solutions, or strategies without question. Appreciation  of their mentoring work is expressed through the program coordination and cannot be  the mentees’ responsibility.  Conflicts are discussed with the coordination and among the mentors and seen as  opportunities for reviewing the project goals. Diversity Mentoring Mission Statements 215  5.4 On the Objectives Diversity is understood as cross-sectional. Diverse lifeworlds of the mentors should help  to address diverse experiences of exclusion and discrimination on behalf of the mentees.  The program is open regarding outcomes, mentees are not persuaded to choose STEM  fields, and STEM fields are not prioritized among other career options. This approach  centers on the mentees’ wishes and interests rather than a general interest in increasing  the participation of women in STEM. Nonetheless, the group discussed that orientation  in STEM should not be neglected, as it is important for the purpose of promoting and  nurturing the mentees’ special interests and talents in STEM, such as giving support in  preparing for youth science competitions. Experiences of the mentors, however, showed  that, especially in competitive situations, care must be taken not to push mentees and not  to focus on the mentors’ own personal goals or ambitions. The right to science education  is the foundation of Club Lise and the goal is to open doors for mentees that would  otherwise remain closed to them. Usability (in terms of skills, for example) only becomes  an issue when explicitly requested by the mentees and under the stated criteria.  The goal is thus to empower mentees to develop self-actualization perspectives in  STEM fields and beyond. In doing so, however, mentors must always keep the mentees’  personal goals in mind and constantly revisit them. Mentors’ own goals – such as increas‐ ing the proportion of women in their field – will only be persued if they match with the  goals of the mentees.  6. The Revised Mission Statement Based on the presented discussions from the coaching process, the mission statement of  Club Lise was revised by adding an addendum to the original mission statement. Key  to the mission statement update are questions that stimulate reflection on diversity, on  categorization, and on othering, addressing, and positioning of mentees. The reflection  questions are assigned to the three areas of the original mission statement and provide  a framework to systematically and continually review diversity mentorship in an an‐ tidiscriminatory way. Given the open character of the questions, they are applicable to  diversity mentoring programs in general. The reflection questions emerged out of men‐ tors’ experiences and acknowledge that a diversity mentoring program cannot function  according to a standard formula, but must be renegotiated in every situation (Andreotti,  2012; ZtG, 2016; Mecheril & Vorrink, 2012). 216 Susanne Spintig & Tanja Tajmel  Addendum to Club Lise’s original mission statement:  Questions for reflectionReflection questions on the role of the mentors– Do mentors provide diverse solution proposals at any time from which the mentees can freely  choose?   – Is the objective of the mentoring relationship regularly reviewed as to whether it meets the current  needs of the mentees?   – Do mentors refrain from assuming that they could decide which solutions are the “right” ones for  the mentees?   – Are mentees supported in their decisions, even if they do not correspond to the mentors’ ideas?   – Are supposed conflicts seen as opportunities to question different perspectives and clear up  misunderstandings?   – Is it ensured that the mentors do not impose their careers on the mentees but make them available  as sample models for adaptation?   – Are career pathways illuminated in the context of unequal access, power inequalities, and  structural discrimination?   – Are career pathways presented authentically, i.e., are moments of failure and stumbling blocks also  addressed?   Expectations on mentees:   – Is a view of mentees as “in need of help” who should be grateful for the support of the coordination  and the mentors problematized?   – Is there an expectation that mentees should make a special effort to advance their careers during  their mentoring relationship?   – Are mentees expected to identify with their mentors and their career pathways?   – Do mentors expect mentees to follow their example and emulate their careers?   – Do mentors expect mentees to implement their tips and solutions?  Refection questions on values in  interaction with each other– Do the participants reflect on the images of the supposed “others” ( for example, mentees with  refugee experience) and how they relate to them?   – Do the participants acknowledge diversity discrepancy between mentors and mentees (such as  unequal power positions in terms of privileges and disadvantages, self-actualization perspectives,  and lifeworlds) and do they take it into consideration in every situation?   – Are group-specific attributions avoided? For example, the assumption is that the mentees lack  opportunities (networks, capital, and access) rather than talent to advance their careers.   – Are discriminatory structures and non-fits between habitus and structure addressed?   – Are experiences of discrimination taken seriously and is there a safe space provided to share?   – Does this protected space ensure that individuals are not pressured to explain their experiences?   – Is the handling of experiences of discrimination, critical moments in the mentoring relationships,  and criticism regulated in cooperation with the coordination?  Reflection questions on the  goals and objectives– Does the program actually reach people who are affected by exclusion and discrimination?   – Are diverse life realities represented among the mentors and mentees?   – Does the program serve as an orientation in STEM career trajectories, taking into account the  mentees’ realities and personal wishes?   – Does the program enable networking and access for mentees to whom doors would otherwise  remain closed?   – Are there constant re-evaluations to ensure that the goals of the mentoring relationships meet the  mentees’ current needs and aspirations?   – Are mentees individually empowered and perspectives for self-actualization developed?   – Is the program open-ended so that mentees are empowered to plan their careers in a self-determined  way?   T able 2: Addendum to the Club Lise mission statement with reflection questionsDiversity Mentoring Mission Statements 217  7. Outlook This chapter provides insight into the participatory process of the revision of a mission  statement for a diversity mentorship program based on the underlying principles of the  right to STEM education, the understanding of social categories as constructs, and the  awareness of intersectional discriminatory structures. Questions for reflection are con‐ sidered key in translating the mission statement into a non-discriminatory praxis and in  supporting mentors to continuously review their relationships with mentees. The revised  mission statement recognizes that there is no formula for a diversity mentoring program  that, applied only once, will ensure a discrimination-free program in the long term.  Phrasing the guidelines as questions for reflection makes it possible to constantly reexamine every situation, every measure, every conversation, every event, etc. in a way that  supports critical awareness of discrimination. It is recommended that the mentors carry  out this review for themselves as well as in regular exchange with each other coordinated  by means of supervision and collegial consultation.  The guiding principle for diversity mentoring is to continuously review the content  in a way that is critically aware of bias; discrimination, including othering, tokenizing,  and stereotyping; and underlying power relations. In such a process, the entire mentoring  program, including attitudes, content, and objectives, is constantly scrutinized. Finally,  the mission statement itself should also be tested at regular intervals for its validity, par‐ ticularly in the view of changing societies and changing political and public discourse, and  adapted if necessary. Only then, will mentorship programs for underrepresented groups  that address diversity contribute to counteracting unequal opportunities in STEM fields  rather then reinforcing the structures that lead to inequity.  References Andreotti, Vanessa de Oliveira (2012). HEADS UP Checkliste. Critical Literacy – Theories and  Practice, 6 (1) , 1–3.  Baer, S, Bittner, M. & Göttsche, A. L. (Eds.). (2010). Mehrdimensionale Diskriminierung –  Begriffe, Theorien und juristische Analyse. Antidiskriminierungsstelle des Bundes . Berlin.  Eickhoff, V. & Schmitt, L. (2016). Herausforderungen hochschulischer Diversity-Politik. Für  einen reflexiven, differenzund ungleichheitssensiblen Umgang mit einem deutungsoffe‐ nen Phänomen. In K. Fereidooni & A. P. Zeoli (Eds.), Die diversitätsbewusste Ausrichtung  des Bildungsund Kulturwesens, der Wirtschaft und V erwaltung  (pp. 199–228). Wiesbaden:  Springer VS.  Mecheril, P. & Plößer, M. (2011). Differenzordnungen, Pädagogik und der Diversity-Ansatz. In  R. Spannring & S. Arens & P. Mecheril (Hrsg.), bildung-macht-unterschiede – 3. Innsbrucker  Bildungstage  (S. 59–81). Innsbruck: innsbruck university press.  Mecheril, P. & Vorrink, A. (2012). Diversity und soziale Arbeit: Umriss eines kritisch-reflexiven  Ansatzes. ARCHIV für Wissenschaft und Praxis der sozialen Arbeit, 1/2012,  92–101. 218 Susanne Spintig & Tanja Tajmel  Schmitt, L. (2006). Symbolische Gewalt und Habitus-Struktur-Konflikte: Entwurf einer  Heuristik zur Analyse und Bearbeitung von Konflikten , (CCS W orking Papers, 2) . Marburg:  Universität Marburg, Zentrum für Konfliktforschung. VS. https://nbnresolving. org/  urn:nbn:de:0168ssoar11459  Spintig, S. & Tajmel, T. (2017). Leitbild eines Diversity-gerechten Mentoring-Konzeptes für  Schüler _ innen und Student_ innen-Mentoring-Programme. In R. Petersen, M. Budde, P. S.  Brocke, G. Doebert, H. Rudack & H. W olf (Eds.), Praxishandbuch Mentoring in der Wis‐ senschaft  (pp. 243–254). Wiesbaden: Springer.  Tajmel, T. & Starl, K. (Eds.). (2009). Science Education Unlimited. Approaches to Equal Oppor‐ tunities in Learning Science . Münster / New Y ork: W axmann.  Zentrum für transdisziplinäre Geschlechterstudien (2016). Diskriminierungskritische Lehre.  Denkanstöße aus den Genderstudies . Berlin: Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, ZtG. VS.  https://www. gender. huberlin. de/ de/ studium/ diskriminierungskritik1/ broschuerederag lehrediskriminierungskritischelehredenkanstoesseausdengenderstudies/ view Authors Nada Al-Nashif   United Nations, Geneva (Switzerland)   Nada Al-Nashif was appointed United Nations Deputy High Commissioner for Hu‐ man Rights on 6 December 2019, assuming the position in 10 February 2020. From  2015–2020, Ms. Al-Nashif served as Assistant Director-General for Social and Hu‐ man Sciences at UNESCO in Paris, leading a portfolio that targets the mobilisation  of knowledge for inclusive, just and sustainable societies. Prior to joining UNESCO,  she served as Assistant Director-General / Regional Director of the International Labour  Organization’s Regional Office for Arab States, based in Beirut, Lebanon (2007–2014).  She previously worked at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), where  she started her United Nations career in 1991, serving in Libya (1992–1995), Lebanon  (2000–2004), Iraq (2003) and at Headquarters in New Y ork (1995–2000, 2005–2006)  www.ohchr.org .  Bruno de Jesus Brito Santana   Escolinha Maria Felipa, Bahia (Brazil)   Bruno Brito is an English teacher at the private education system in Salvador, Bahia.  He began teaching English before he started his undergraduate studies at the Catholic  University of Salvador, and over the past few years he has gained professional teaching ex‐ perience teaching English to children and adolescents. He is also experienced in teaching  Portuguese to foreigners. He is currently working at Maria Felipa School and his research  interests include world Englishes and race-ethnicity applied to English teaching.  Seval Fer   Hacettepe Üniversitesi, Ankara (Turkey)   Seval Fer is a Professor at the Faculty of Education, Department of Educational Sciences,  Division of Curriculum and Instruction at Hacettepe University in Ankara. She holds a  Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction – Educational Sciences Graduate Education from  Gazi University (T urkey) and an M.S. in Vocational Education / Curriculum from Wis‐ consin-State University, Wisconsin (USA). She teaches at undergraduate and graduate  levels and directs seminars and workshops for the local schools, public and private. She  has published six books, several book chapters and scientific journal articles. She has also  worked on national and international projects concerning curriculum and instruction  in T urkey, as well as for the European Union and W orld Bank. Her current research  interests include curriculum studies and instructional design. 220 Authors  Gita Ghiasi   Université de Montréal and Institute for Data Valorisation (IVADO), Montreal  (Canada)   Gita Ghiasi is a senior research advisor at the École de bibliothéconomie et des sci‐ ences de l’information (Université de Montréal) and the Institute for Data Valorisation  (IVADO). She holds a Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering and a Master’s degree in In‐ ternational business. Her research focuses on the potent effects that a new technology  can have, and may in future have, on society and introduces policy implications and  strategies to orient emerging technologies toward equity and equality outcomes. Gita  Ghiasi’s research interests are critical data, research and technology evaluation, gender  analysis, international development and science and technology policy.  Lorena Lacerda   Escolinha Maria Felipa, Bahia (Brazil)   Lorena Lacerda is Black feminist, school secretary at Maria Felipa School, founding  member of the March of Crespo Empowerment, turban wearer, fashionista and digital  influencer. She graduated in Museology at the Federal University of Bahia (UFBA) and  currently she is studying Social Sciences at the Federal University of Bahia (UFBA).  Lorena Lacerda is experienced in the construction and organizing committee of the Cre‐ spo Empowerment March – Salvador (BA). The first march took place on November 7,  2015, with more than 3,000 participants from Campo Grande to Praça Castro Alves in  Salvador (BA). Its purpose was the empowerment of Black people through aesthetics as  a political act.  Petra Lucht   T echnische Universität Berlin, Berlin (Germany)   Petra Lucht is Professor at the Centre for Interdisciplinary W omen and Gender Studies  at TU Berlin, where she holds a Chair in Gender in STEM and Urban and Regional  Planning; Feminist Studies in Science, T echnology and Society (Feminist STS). She  studied physics at the University of Kiel (Germany) and completed her Ph.D. in Soci‐ ology at the University of Hamburg while carrying out research at the Massachusetts  Institute of T echnology (MIT) and Harvard University. Currently, she researches and  teaches in the field of Gender Studies in Science, T echnology and Engineering at the  T echnical University Berlin. She is well known for her work on ethnographic case studies  of physics laboratories in Germany and the US. As a visiting fellow in the “Program in  W omen’s Studies” , Massachusetts Institute of T echnology (US), she worked with Evelyn  Fox Keller.  Gerd Oberleitner   Karl-Franzens Universität, Graz (Austria)   Gerd Oberleitner is Professor of International Law, Director of the European T raining  and Research Centre for Human Rights and Democracy at the University of Graz, and Authors 221  UNESCO Chairholder since 2016, renewed for the period 2020–2024. He served as  Legal Adviser in the Human Rights Department of the Austrian Foreign Ministry, was  Executive Director of the European T raining and Research Centre for Human Rights  and Democracy in Graz and Lecturer in Human Rights at the London School of Eco‐ nomics and Political Science (LSE). Gerd Oberleitner was Visiting Fellow at the LSE’s  Centre for the Study of Human Rights, at the European Inter-University Centre in  Venice and the Université du Quebéc à Montréal, Visiting Professor at Rutgers Uni‐ versity and the Universities of Prishtina and Ljubljana and DAAD Visiting Professor  at the Institute for International Law of Peace and Armed Conflict at the University of  Bochum. He is National Director of the European Master’s Degree in Human Rights and  Democratisation and teaches in the Global Campus of Regional Human Rights Master  Programmes.  Stefanie Ruel   The Open University, Milton Keynes (UK)   Stefanie Ruel, Lecturer (Assistant Professor) in the Department for People and Organ‐ isations, Faculty of Business and Law, at the Open University, UK, was until recently  a Life Sciences Mission Manager at the Canadian Space Agency. She led more than  ten life sciences missions into space, including being the Increment Payload Manager  for Canadian Commander Chris Hadfield’s return to space aboard the International  Space Station. Dr. Ruel’s research focuses on gender and diversity in STEM contexts,  across historical and contemporary organizations. Her award-winning research, includ‐ ing the Emerald Literati 2020 Outstanding Paper award, reveals systemic discrimination  in STEM industries in such a way to move us away from these oppressive practices. She  received her Bachelor of Science, Major Mathematics, from McGill University, Canada.  She holds the degree of Master of Business Administration and Doctorate in Business  Administration from Athabasca University, Canada.  Svein Sjøberg   Universitetet i Oslo, Oslo (Norway)   Svein Sjøberg is Professor Emeritus of Science Didactics at the Department of T eacher  Education and School Research at the University of Oslo. He has been Professor at  several Norwegian and Swedish universities. He is an honorary doctor at the University  of Linköping and an honorary professor at the University of Copenhagen and at the  Hong Kong Institute of Education. He is an invited member of the Norwegian Academy  of Sciences. Educated as a nuclear physicist (cand.real), later in education (M.A.) and in  educational psychology (Ph.D.), he also holds a Master of Arts degree from the Univer‐ sity of Leeds (UK) and a Dr. philos from the University of Oslo (Norway). Svein Sjøberg  is on the editorial board of several international journals in the field of “science educa‐ tion” . His current research interests are the social, ethical, political and cultural aspects  of science education, in particular the impacts and influence of large scale international 222 Authors  student assessment studies like PISA and TIMSS. He has worked with international  and comparative aspects of science education through e.g. UNESCO, OECD and the  European Union and has won several international prizes and awards for his research,  teaching and promotion of science literacy and public understanding of science.  Bárbara Carine Soares Pinheiro   Universidade Federal da Bahia, Bahia (Brazil)   Bárbara Carine Soares Pinheiro graduated in 2010 from the Federal University of Bahia  (UFBA), she received her Master’s degree in 2012 and her Ph.D. in 2014. Currently  she is professor at the Institute of Chemistry at UFBA. She studies and explores sci‐ ence education in democratic school and racial-ethnic relations. In 2018, she published  together with Katemari Rosa the book “Decolonizing Knowing. Law 10.639/2003 in  science teaching” (Editora Livraria da Física). In this book the authors present a didactic  proposals for teaching science from the historical struggle of the Black people in Brazil  and through the legal framework of law 10.639/2003 that made the teaching of AfroBrazilian history and culture in basic education at the elementary and high school levels  mandatory  Susanne Spintig   Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin (Germany)   Susanne Spintig is a programme coordinator at the Centre for T ransdisciplinary Gender  Studies at Humboldt University Berlin. Since 2008 she is Director of Club Lise men‐ toring in Germany. She holds a Mag. (equiv. Master’s) in Communication Studies and  Sociology from T echnical University Berlin, and an M.A. in Gender and Diversity Stud‐ ies from Free University Berlin. She developed a framework for diversity mentorship that  was applied to the Club Lise program. In 2011, she initiated the Lise Mentoring Network  with the aim to provide a space for exchange to share experience with and knowledge  about diversity concepts for mentoring relationships in theory and praxis. At the Centre  for T ransdisciplinary Gender Studies, she leads the Gender Studies mentoring program  where she implements the developed and tested concepts.  Klaus Starl   International Centre for the Promotion of Human Rights at the Local and Regional  Levels under the auspices of UNESCO, Graz (Austria)   Klaus Starl, acting director of the International Centre for the Promotion of Human  Rights at the Local and Regional Levels, has more than 30 years of experience in human  rights and organisational consulting for local and regional authorities, city networks, as  well as the justice sector. He holds a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Graz. He  investigates universities’ role in establishing, maintaining and reinforcing human rights  processes. Besides stressing the role of universities as research hubs and clearing houses  needed for evidenceand human-rights-based policy making, they have the potential  of academic and educational institutions to foster the establishment of a human rights Authors 223  culture in the city. Klaus Starl is organizing and teaching in human rights graduate pro‐ grammes in Europe, Asia-Pacific, Africa, South-East Europe, Caucasus, Latin-America  and the Caribbean, and the Arab region how universities can contribute to promoting  human rights in cities.  T anja T ajmel   Concordia University, Montreal (Canada)   Tanja Tajmel is Associate Professor at the Centre for Engineering in Society, Gina Cody  School of Engineering and Computer Science, Concordia University. Since 2020, she  holds a Concordia University Research Chair (Tier 2) in Equity, Diversity and Inclusion  (EDI) in Science, T echnology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) and established  the EDI Research Lab. She earned her Doctorate in Didactics of Physics at Humboldt  University Berlin (Germany) and holds a Mag. rer. nat. (equiv. M.Sc.) in Physics and  Philosophy, Karl-Franzens-University Graz (Austria). In 2017–2018, she was a pro‐ fessor at the University of Education Upper Austria, and in 2019, Tanja Tajmel was  Visiting Professor at the University of São Paulo. T o promote and realize the right to  science education, she has been leading international projects in Europe (“PROMISE –  promotion of migrants in science education”; Club Lise mentorship program) and the  Americas (“Decolonizing Light – tracing and countering colonialism in contemporary  physics”).  Lamija T anovi´ c   Humanity in Action, Sarajevo (Bosnia & Herzegovina)   Lamija Tanovi´ c is Professor Emeritus of Sarajevo School of Science and T echnology,  Bosnia and Herzegovina, member of the European Academy of Sciences, and founder  and Board Chair of Humanity in Action, Sarajevo. She was Professor of Atomic and  Nuclear Physics and Solid-State Physics at the Faculty of Sciences, University of Sarajevo  until 2013. For many years Prof. Tanovi´ c has been intensively engaged in the activities for  reform and improvement of the education in Bosnia-Herzegovina. From 2001–2004 she  was Head of the Department for International Scientific, T echnical, Educational and  Cultural Cooperation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and from 1994–2001 Minister  Counsellor, Chargé d’ Affaires of the Embassy of Bosnia-Herzegovina in Copenhagen,  Denmark. She was Chair of the UWC-IBO Initiative, which established the United  W orld College in Mostar, Bosnia-Herzegovina and which is the founder of the Educa‐ tion in Action Foundation in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 