Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn (Eds.) School adoption in  teacher education Increasing pre-service teachers’  responsibility during practiceMarkus Janssen, Thomas Wiedenhorn (Eds.)  School adoption in teacher education  Increasing pre-service teachers’  responsibility during practice  Waxmann 202 0  Münster ⋅ New York Bibliographic information published by Die Deutsche Nationalbibliothek Die Deutsche Nationalbibliothek lists this publication in the Deutsche  Nationalbibliografie;  detailed  bibliographic  data  are available  in the internet  at http://dnb.dnb.de.  Print-ISBN 978-3-8309-4263-4  E-Book-ISBN  978-3-8309-9263-9 https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639 © Waxmann Verlag GmbH, 202 0  Steinfurter  Straße  555, 48159  Münster, Germany  Waxmann  Publishing Co.  P. O. Box 1318,  New  York, NY 10028, U. S. A.  www.waxmann.com  info@waxmann.com  Cove r Design : Anne Breitenbach , Münster  Setting:  satz&sonders  GmbH,  Dülmen  This e-book is available under the license CC-BY-NC-ND.  Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/legalcode Dear editors, authors, and readers On behalf of the University of Education Weingarten, and as its prorector  for teaching and studies, I am glad that we can present the first results of  an innovative internship model in teacher education, namely a collection of  descriptions, analyses and initial theoretical considerations of international  concepts of School Adoption in Teacher Education .  The School Adoption in Teacher Education  project adds to the research and  development competence of all partners involved. For the University of Edu‐ cation Weingarten, for example, it adds to a number of projects focusing on  innovative partnership models in initial teacher education. As such, there was  no question that the University of Education Weingarten would financially  support this publication because it is one of a series of larger and smaller  projects in a similar field here at our university.  One such research and development project focused on the competence  development of student teachers during a one-year internship, the so called  “Praxisjahr Biberach” (Dieck et al., 2009). This project can certainly be re‐ garded as a precursor to the practical semesters that are common in initial  teacher education in Germany today: Student teachers in the middle of their  studies spent a whole school year at a school. They were supervised and  mentored by lecturers from our university, by staff from the preparatory  service of the seminar for teacher training and didactics, and by teachers  from the project schools. The empirical research on the impact of the project  focused on student teachers’ competence development in four main areas:  the counselling student teachers received during this year, the effect on the  professionalization of mentors, the development of didactic thinking, lesson  planning, and the development of other competencies specific to the teaching  profession.  While the internship in this model was a long-term one, school adoption  and especially its adoption week build on a shorter but more intensive ex‐ perience. A similarly detailed empirical research on school adoption is still  pending. However, it would be advantageous because the members of the  project group would guarantee a wide variety of research approaches and an  international sample would be at hand.  Best wishes, Prof. Dr. Bernd Reinhoffer References Dieck, M.; Dörr, G.; Kucharz, D.; Küster, O.; Müller, K.; Reinhoffer, B.;  Rosenberger, T.; Schnebel, S.; Bohl, T. (2009). School Adoption in Teacher Education  Increasing Pre-Service Teachers’ Responsibility during  Practice  Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  The Rationale Underlying this Compilation When Linda Darling-Hammond suggests that “teacher educators, as a pro‐ fessional collective, need to work more intently to build on what has been  learned about developing stronger models of teacher preparation” (2006,  p. 302), she calls for an exchange of knowledge about what kind of practice  arrangements initial teacher education institutions and other institutions  involved in teacher education offer their student teachers. School adoption  is such an offer and arrangement. Its core in a nutshell: In-service teachers  leave their school to be adopted  by student teachers for a certain period of  time, mostly a week, who then are responsible for running the school.  In this volume, we present concepts of school adoption, initial evalu‐ ation results, and theoretical considerations. With this book, we address  the professional collective of teacher educators in schools, universities, and  other institutions. It aims to provide the reader with practical and organi‐ zational insights, with information on the contents and thematic focuses of  the teacher education programs that are offered to student teachers at the  respective partner universities. Our aim is also to facilitate discussion on the  concept(s), its further developments, and perspectives in teacher education  and teacher education research.  Background and Development School Adoption in Teacher Education  (or abbreviated as SATE) was a co‐ operation aiming at innovation and exchange of good practices in initial  teacher education. The project was funded under Erasmus+1 for three years  1 Project number: 2016-1-DK01-KA203-022324.10 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  from September 2016 onwards. It was coordinated under the direction of  the University College Syddanmark (Denmark). Partners were Lyshoejskolen  (Denmark), the Europa-Universität Flensburg (Germany), the Norwegian  University of Science and Technology (Norway), Penza State University  (Russia) and the University of Education Weingarten (Germany). During the  36 months of the project, all partners conceptualized and implemented a local  form of school adoption.  The development of the SATE-project can be described as a special form  of policy borrowing , namely one which “occurs when certain techniques,  models or methods developed in one country are borrowed by stakeholders in  another country, with or without the direct help of national policy-makers”  (Ottesen, Lund, Grams, Aas & Prøitz, 2013, p. 467). Their four-step framework  of borrowing processes (p. 468) can also be used to describe the development  of the SATE-project:  1. The original concept of the Norwegian University of Science and Tech‐ nology (Ramberg & Haugaløkken, 2019) attracted international attention,  mainly within an already existing network2, and  2. led to the decision of the partners to attempt to establish a SATE model  at their institutions with the help of an Erasmus+ grant.  3. The original adoption concept then had to be adapted to the new contexts  of the partner institutions and  4. become internalized by the institutions.  Structure of the Volume The degree to which school adoption has been internalized, i.e., conceptual‐ ized and implemented, at the partner universities is presented in this book. In  the following we provide a brief overview of the contributions.  Andreas Lund (University of Oslo) positions SATE in the current dis‐ cussions on partnerships in teacher education. He argues that practical ar‐ rangements such as SATE offer a new space of, and for, student teachers’  transformative agency that is characterized “by increased responsibility and  2 The “Teacher Education: Quality, Integration and Learning” network, which seeks  to bring together European academics interested in evidence-informed teacher  education: https://www.ntnu.edu/ilu/tequila .Editorial: School Adoption in Teacher Education 11  trust beyond the entailments of more traditional partnerships” (Lund, 2020,  p. 18 ). We are very grateful that he, who was not part of the Erasmus+ project,  contributed these theoretical and conceptual considerations to this volume.  In their comparative synopsis of SATE concepts, Markus Janssen and  Thomas Wiedenhorn (University of Education Weingarten) show the range  and variability of this partnership model and point to the societal relevance  initial teacher education gains through it, as the participating teachers en‐ gage in professional development courses “as a team for several days without  canceling lessons for pupils” (Janssen & Wiedenhorn, 2020a, p. 21 ). They  conclude that SATE is not yet a fully cooperative partnership.  Monika Merket and Elin Bø Morud (2020) frame their revised school  adoption model at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology with  the theory of practice architectures. They elaborate on the relationship of  theory and practice and on student teachers’ increased independence and  responsibility. The authors present qualitative findings in relation to their  theoretical considerations, among others on the role of the supervisors.  Janssen and Wiedenhorn (2020b) propose to add the theory of practice  architectures and the core practice approach to the theoretical foundation of  SATE. The authors compare SATE with another partnership arrangement.  They argue that in both the enactment and perception of core practices, such  as oral instruction, differ due to the different social spaces of the two practical  arrangements.  Johanna Gosch and Kirsten Großmann, as well as Olga Surina and Nataliia  Pavlova, outline two different institutional concepts of SATE. Gosch and  Großmann (2020) describe SATE at the Europa-Universität Flensburg as a  collaborative partnership involving the university, the partner school, and  the Institute for Quality Development at School in Schleswig-Holstein, an  institution of the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture of the State of  Schleswig-Holstein. As a non-university institution and third partner it is  involved in the project and the practical semester in which SATE is integrated  at the Europa-Universität Flensburg. Surina and Pavlova (2020) describe first  experiences with, and lessons learned from, SATE at Penza State University.  One focus is on improvements after these first experiences and a revised  preparation schedule. To them, SATE is “an example of resource exchange  between the school and teacher education institution” (p. 90 ). They contend  that clearly defined roles and expectations are key to the success of school  adoption. 12 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  Sonja Bandorski was part of the SATE project and responsible for its  evaluation (Bandorski, 2019). In her contribution, she gives a primer on the  evaluation design and some main findings (Bandorski, 2020).  During the publication process of this volume, the Danish partners un‐ fortunately withdrew their contribution. In the comparison of the SATE  concepts in Janssen and Wiedenhorn (2020a) and in the primer of the project  evaluation (Bandorski, 2020), however, reference is made to their concept,  independently of a chapter in this volume.  A Note on the Editors’ Role During the SATE project, it became clear that each partner had to develop a  specific variant of the concept for their institution due to local conditions  (such as curriculum, policy, tradition, and the like) but also due to the  different positions and functions the partners held within their institution.  Therefore, we, as editors, have not insisted on a specific structure of the  contributions, but have instead given the authors a free choice on how to  best describe their own SATE concept from their perspective. Nor have we  insisted on a specific set of terms across this volume. Terms like internship,  practicum, practice or the like are used within different chapters to refer to  a period of training at a school as part of a study program. Also, terms like  students or student teachers differ and do refer to pre-service teachers in  initial teacher education; to those who study at a college or university to  become a teacher. However, with regards to the objectives of this publication  and with a view to the readership, we assume that this diversity should not  lead to confusion, because these terms are common knowledge within the  community. Similarly, the use of the general terms like teacher education,  university and schools should be sufficient for understanding the chapters.  On the one hand, the use of more precise designations and specific refer‐ ences to units or departments of a university or college would have been  desirable. But on the other hand, these are not self-explanatory and thus in  need of longer elaborations and explanations which we wanted to avoid. This  procedure should enable the authors to present their project in their way. For  the reader, this way points to opportunities for the adaptation of the general  idea of SATE to their local institutional conditions, with their own ideas and  focal points. For queries and further information, please contact the authors  directly. Their names and contact details are given in the list of authors. Editorial: School Adoption in Teacher Education 13  Acknowledgements We are indebted to a number of people who were involved in the develop‐ ment and completion of this volume. We would like to thank the Rectorate of  the University of Education Weingarten for its support. We would also like  to thank Melanie Völker and Julia Lengers from Waxmann for her support  during this publication process. We also thank the contributors to this vol‐ ume for their work and patience. Last but not least, we would like to thank  Per Ramberg and Peter Gray for initiating the SATE project and supporting  the completion of this book.  References Bandorski, S. (2019). School adoption in teacher education. Evaluation re‐ port. Flensburg, https://www.uni-flensburg.de/fileadmin/content/portale/ lehrerbildung/dokumente/presse/2019-bandorski-sate-online.pdf .  Bandorski, S. (2020). Evaluation of the school adoption in teacher education –  project. A primer on approach and main findings. In M. Janssen & T.  Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 91 –98 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Darling-Hammond, L. (2006). Constructing 21st-century teacher education.  Journal of Teacher Education , 57(3), 300–314, http://dx.doi:10.1177/002248710 5285962 .  Gosch, J. & Großmann, K. (2020). School adoption as a collaborative partnership  in teacher education at the Europa-Universität Flensburg. In M. Janssen & T.  Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 75 –81 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Janssen, M. & Wiedenhorn, T. (2020a). A comparative synopsis of in‐ ternational school adoption concepts. In M. Janssen & T. Wieden‐ horn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-service  teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 21 –34 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Janssen, M. & Wiedenhorn, T. (2020b). The theory of practice architectures and  the core practice approach as theoretical perspectives on school adoption.  An example from the University of Education Weingarten. In M. Janssen &  T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 57 –73 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639. 14 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  Lund, A. (2020). Preface: The adopted school as a transformative space. In M.  Janssen & T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increas‐ ing pre-service teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 15 –20 ). Münster:  Waxmann, https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Merket, M. & Morud, E. (2020). School adoption 2.0. A new practice model for  teacher education at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology.  In M. Janssen & T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education.  Increasing pre-service teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 35 –55 ). Mün‐ ster: Waxmann, https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Ottesen, E.; Lund, B.; Grams, S.; Aas, M. & Prøitz, T. S. (2013). Educational  methods as commodities within European education: A Norwegian-Danish  case. European Educational Research Journal , 12(4), 463–479, https://dx.doi. org/10.2304/eerj.2013.12.4.463 .  Ramberg, P. & Haugaløkken, O. (2019). School adoption in teacher education  at NTNU. In P. Gray & P. Ramberg (Eds.), Servants of the school: Building  teacher education in Mid-Norway, 1998–2018  (2nd ed.) (pp. 91–99). Bristol:  Squaregrowth Design Ltd.  Surina, O. & Pavlova, N. (2020). Development of school adoption for building  professional competencies at Penza State University. In M. Janssen & T.  Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 83 –90 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639. Preface: The Adopted School as a  Transformative Space  Andreas Lund  For several decades, the Holy Grail for teacher education has been a model  where student teachers can combine academic and experiential learning in  realistic and relevant practice (among others Furlong, Campbell, Howson,  Lewis & McNamara, 2006; Lillejord & Børte, 2016; Menter, Hulme, Elliot &  Lewin, 2010; Zeichner, 2010). Increasingly, efforts to operationalize such a  vision have involved systematic and committed collaboration between higher  education institutions and partner schools. The aim is to provide student  teachers with spaces for professional development, not merely to try and  see what teaching is like. Thus, partner schools are not merely regarded  as recipients of student teachers from the teacher education institutions  but as acknowledged coworkers in teacher education. Such collaboration  involves reciprocity and a mutual recognition of each partner’s strengths. It  also involves both partners operating as active teacher educators where the  synthesized results of such collaboration amount to more than the sum of  the separate partners’ qualities. One example is student assignments in the  form of research-informed papers that also integrate empirical analysis of the  student teachers’ teaching as documented in, e.g., annotated video recordings.  However, such partnerships, while representing a vast improvement on  the educator – recipient model , are not necessarily a panacea. As Lillejord and  Børte (2016) have shown, partnerships are work-intensive and require the  partners to clarify expectations, define responsibilities, and involve all levels  in the collaborating institutions, including academic leadership. Studies of  current models reveal tensions both between and inside the partner institu‐ tions (Martin, Snow & Torrez 2011). For example, the student teachers’ expe‐ rience that feedback, advice and guidance from mentors in partner schools is  not always aligned with feedback, advice, and guidance from supervisors in  higher education institutions (Lillejord & Børte, 2016). Sometimes, there are  even conflicting messages, resulting in confused or insecure student teachers. 16 Andreas Lund  There are also examples of downright dysfunctional partnerships (Burton &  Greher, 2007).  While the diverse partnership models seem to find a common denomi‐ nator in integration , the present volume makes an ambitious leap forward  by launching the School Adoption in Teacher Education  (SATE) principle. For  a teacher educator like me, who has worked with developing partnerships  and “University Schools” (Lund & Eriksen, 2016) along with student teachers’  transformative agency (Brevik, Gudmundsdottir, Lund & Strømme, 2019) for  a number of years, SATE offers some exciting possibilities that can expand  the possibilities of partnership models, even successful ones. As SATE is a  relatively new addition to the field of teacher education, there are few extant  empirical studies (but see Bach, 2019). Consequently, the present volume  represents a welcome demonstration of how this practice is implemented  across a range of institutions and countries.  The contributions that make up this volume can be read at a descriptive  level as well as a conceptual level. On a descriptive level, we get to know  how various partners have prepared, planned, and designed school adoption  prototypes. We learn how schools and student teachers have been selected,  whether parents are involved, and how SATE operates in the space between  institutional independence and national regulations. Furthermore, this vol‐ ume covers issues such as aims, milestones, durations, organizations, as well  as reflection on, and evaluation of, experiences. Such a descriptive level is  valuable since it shows how the interplay between an emerging concept and  heterogeneous approaches is put to work. On a conceptual level, the notion of  school adoption is analyzed through lenses of practice architectures (Kemmis,  2009; Kemmis et al., 2014) and core practices (Grossman, Hammerness &  McDonald, 2009) in order to connect the organizational efforts and unfolding  practices with student teachers’ processes of becoming professional teachers;  partly structured by institutional contexts, partly as a result of students’  capacity to engage in transformative endeavors (Brevik et al., 2019). What  emerges is a point of departure for identifying and discussing rich opportu‐ nities for the integration of knowledge types, academic and experiential, and  professional development. However, this also involves risks, when agents  encounter new affordances in a situation. Let me, therefore, briefly turn to  some vital issues that together illustrate how school adoption expands on the  integration approach. Preface: The Adopted School as a Transformative Space 17  Immersion. At the heart of the SATE experience is what seems like a pre‐ carious move for employed teachers, who leave their school and whose  classes are taken over, or adopted, by student teachers. Consequently, student  teachers (for a time) leave the safety of models that rely on the presence  of mentors and supervisors. Two affordances immediately arise. Firstly, the  student teachers become immersed in the total school ecology. They are not  only assigned teaching assignments but are also required to deal with all  the educational and management duties that constitute the teaching profes‐ sion.  Secondly, the student teachers are placed in a position where their mis‐ takes, slip-ups, oversights, and less than optimal efforts are not ‘externally’  assessed and mitigated by mentors and supervisors. Instead, challenges, and  the responses to them, become the responsibility of the student teachers.  Individual student teachers and their peers will need to acknowledge and  understand their failures as well as successes and efforts that fall somewhere  in between. Thus, immersion calls for performative competence beyond what  has been the case in otherwise well-functioning partnerships; it is not suf‐ ficient to know subjects and to do teaching – students must engage with  the total school environment and its socio-political context. To summarize,  immersion affords the student teachers the opportunity to respond to the  increased complexity and demanding epistemic work by engaging in a fully  authentic educational environment, not merely experiencing a slice of it as  an outsider.  Boundary work . Partnerships between academia and schools involve  boundary zones, boundary crossing, and boundary work (Akkerman &  Bakker, 2011). Not only the student teachers but also their mentors and  supervisors – in fact, all members of the teacher education ecosystem –  inhabit a ‘third space’ (Forgasz, Heck, Williams, Ambrosetti, & Willis, 2018)  where the historically separate aims of the partner institutions are juxtaposed  and, ideally, integrated. The academic and scientific subject discipline meets  the school subject, and research-based teacher education encounters class  situations that require immediate responses and involve difficult decisions.  Furthermore, the student teacher is suddenly exposed to a plethora of stake‐ holders, from parents to local authorities, and even to national, socio-political  decision-makers.  Partnerships have proved to be a valuable model in meeting such chal‐ lenges as, when successful, student teachers, mentors, and supervisors are 18 Andreas Lund  required to move beyond their immediate contexts and engage in joint efforts,  with a shared understanding of the desired results. This is difficult, even  painful, since it may involve relinquishing privileged positions that have ma‐ terialized over time, from research or practice. This potential dichotomy must  be replaced by the co-construction of a knowledge base for teacher education  (Lund & Eriksen, 2016). With the SATE approach, the adoption phase will be  immersed in the more permanent boundary work that is necessary.  But here we see a qualitative leap; boundary crossing is temporarily  suspended and a student teacher space is allowed to flourish. At the heart  of such a space is increased responsibility and trust beyond the entailments  of more traditional partnerships. As these qualities are crucial in the student  teachers’ future profession, it means that the SATE initiative offers, in the  words of Janssen and Wiedenhorn, “a more complete picture of their future  professional field than other forms of internship” (2020, p. 66 ).  Transformative agency . With immersion and the temporary suspension of  boundary crossing, the SATE initiative emerges as a space for transformative  agency (Brevik, et al., 2019; El Kadri & Roth, 2015; Lund & Eriksen, 2016).  Transformative agency is characterized by encountering situations that are  complex, involve a conflict of motives, and can represent an impasse, due to  bewildering alternatives or the lack of an obvious way out, etc. This requires  the agent(s) to break out of the problem situation by taking initiatives to  transform it: “When a group of people does this and searches collaboratively  for a new form for the productive activity in which they are engaged, we  can speak of shared transformative agency” (Virkkunen, 2006, p. 43). For the  student teachers involved in school adoption, the daunting complexity and  sheer number of tasks that come with immersion represent such a problem  situation. In order to transform it, the student teachers need to draw on a  number of resources: epistemic (subject knowledge), social (peers), discursive  (concepts, metaphors), and material (analog and digital).  As school adoption is not an apprenticeship model (Bach, 2019), the in‐ creased student responsibilities enforce the students’ capacity to transform  problem situations into educationally and socially productive processes. A  more ambitious and highly authentic professional practice would be hard  to find. In addition, when the initial situation is transformed by student  teachers’ transformative agency, it is the student teacher, too, who changes,  not merely the situation. By enacting agency in the face of complex chal‐ lenges, the student teachers develop as professionals. Preface: The Adopted School as a Transformative Space 19  In a world where the volume of information increases exponentially,  where we encounter complex problems locally and globally, and where the  turnover rate of valid knowledge accelerates, we need teachers who are  prepared to exercise transformative agency. We will need teachers who are  not merely enculturated into existing practices but who are professionally  creative and who can develop new practices with ecological validity for a  changing world (Lund & Eriksen, 2016). The SATE initiative would seem to  be a prime candidate for such an undertaking.  References Akkerman, S. F. & Bakker, A. (2011). Boundary crossing and boundary objects.  Review of Educational Research, 81 (2), 132–169.  Bach, A. (2019). School adoption by school-university partnerships – an ex‐ ample from Germany. Journal of Education for Teaching: International re‐ search and pedagogy, 45 (3), 306–321, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09589236.2019. 1599510 .  Brevik, L. M. (2014). Making implicit practice explicit: How do upper secondary  teachers describe their reading comprehension strategies instruction? Inter‐ national Journal of Educational Research, 67 , 52–66, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/ j.ijer.2014.05.002 .  Brevik, L. M.; Gudmundsdottir, G.; Lund, A. & Strømme, T. A. (2019). Trans‐ formative agency in teacher education: Fostering professional digital compe‐ tence. Teaching and Teacher Education , (86), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tate. 2019.07.005 .  Burton, S. L. & Greher, G. R. (2007). School-university partnerships: What do  we know and why do they matter? Arts Education Policy Review, 109 (1), 13– 24, https://dx.doi.org/10.3200/AEPR.109.1.13-24 .  El Kadri, M. S. & Roth, W. M. (2015). The teaching practicum as a locus of  multi-leveled, school-based transformation. Teaching Education, 26 (1), 17–37,  http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10476210.2014.997700 .  Forgasz, R.; Heck, D.; Williams, J.; Ambrosetti, A. & Willis, L.-D. (2018). Theoris‐ ing the third space of professional experience partnerships. In J. Kriewaldt, A.  Ambrosetti, D. Rorrison & R. Capeness (Eds.), Educating future teachers: Inno‐ vative perspectives in professional experience  (pp. 33–47). Singapore: Springer.  Furlong, J.; Campbell, A.; Howson, J.; Lewis, S. & McNamara, O. (2006). Part‐ nership in English initial teacher education: Changing times, changing defi‐ nitions – evidence from the Teacher Training Agency National Partnership  Project. Scottish Educational Review , (37), 32–45. 20 Andreas Lund  Grossman, P., Hammerness, K. & McDonald, M. (2009). Redefining teaching,  re-imagining teacher education. Teachers and Teaching: theory and practice,  15(2), 273–289, https://doi.org/10.1080/13540600902875340 .  Janssen, M. & Wiedenhorn, T. (2020). The theory of practice architectures and  the core practice approach as theoretical perspectives on school adoption.  An example from the University of Education Weingarten. In M. Janssen &  T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 57 –73 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Kemmis, S. (2009). Understanding professional practice: A synoptic framework.  In B. Green (Ed.), Understanding and researching professional practice  (pp. 19– 38). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers, https://doi.org/10.1163/9789087907327_003 .  Kemmis, S., Wilkinson, J., Edwards-Groves, C., Hardy, I., Grootenboer, P.,  Bristol, L. (2014). Praxis, practice and practice architectures. In S. Kem‐ mis, J. Wilkinson, C. Edwards-Groves, I. Hardy, P. Grootenboer & L. Bris‐ tol (Eds.), Changing practices, changing education  (pp. 25–41). Singapore:  Springer, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-4560-47-4_2 .  Lillejord, S. & Børte, K. (2016). Partnership in teacher education – a research  mapping. European Journal of Teacher Education, 39 (5), 550–563, http://dx. doi.org/10.1080/02619768.2016.1252911 .  Lund, A. & Eriksen, T. M. (2016). Teacher education as transformation: Some  lessons learned from a center for excellence in education. Acta Didactica  Norge, 10 (2), 53–72.  Martin, S. D.; Snow, J. L. & Torrez, C. A. F. (2011). Navigating the terrain  of third space: Tensions with / in relationships in school-university partner‐ ships. Journal of Teacher Education, 62 (3), 299–311, http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/ 0022487110396096 .  Menter, I.; Hulme, M.; Elliot, D. & Lewin, J. (2010). Literature review on teacher  education in the 21st century . Edinburgh: The Scottish Government.  Virkkunen, J. (2006). Dilemmas in building shared transformative agency.  @ctivités, 3 (1), 43–66.  Zeichner, K. (2010). Rethinking the connections between campus courses  and field experiences in collegeand university-based teacher education.  Journal of Teacher Education, 61 (1–2), 89–99, http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/ 0022487109347671 . A Comparative Synopsis  of International School Adoption Concepts  Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  Introduction The core and basic figure of school adoption The concept of school adoption supplements and broadens established forms  of partnerships in teacher education with an innovative element: In-service  teachers leave their school for a week for their professional development and  are substituted by student teachers. This way, school adoption in teacher ed‐ ucation (SATE) offers unique opportunities for teachers and student teachers:  The former have a week for their professional development, both as individ‐ uals and as a team. The latter engage more deeply in their future professional  field because they are responsible for more tasks in teaching and schooling  than in regular internships, and are thus more responsible for the school, the  pupils, and themselves. They experience, practice, and reflect on themselves  as becoming professionals under conditions which other internships do not  offer: Unobserved by lecturers and mentors in their role as future teachers in  the classrooms. But closely accompanied in their preparation, follow-up and  reflection by school teachers and university lecturers. This can be regarded  as the core of SATE. To this effect, both sides engage in learning which is  relevant for the current pupils of the participating teachers and for the future  pupils of the student teachers. This is innovative within teacher education, as  is the societal relevance that teacher education gains through school adoption  by enabling teachers to engage in collaborative professional development as  a team for several days without cancelling lessons for pupils.  Starting from the above-mentioned basic outline, the partners in the Eras‐ mus+ project School Adoption in Teacher Education  developed their own local  SATE concepts that take into account their respective, very specific school  and university contexts and cultures. University partners of that project were  – University College Syddanmark, Denmark (UCSyd),  – Europa-Universität Flensburg, Germany (EUF),  – Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Norway (NTNU), 22 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  – Penza State University, Russia (PSU) and  – University of Education Weingarten, Germany (PHWG).  Aim and structure of the chapter In this contribution we systematize and compare selected aspects of the  SATE concepts which were developed during the Erasmus+ project. For  this, we used concept tables (Miles, Huberman & Saldana, 2019, p. 166) to  cluster and describe the variability within the overall concept of SATE. For  this, information from the single chapters in this volume (Gosch & Groß‐ mann, 2020; Janssen & Wiedenhorn, 2020a; Merket & Morud, 2020; Surina &  Pavlova, 2020) were supplemented by material from written queries with the  partners. As mentioned (Janssen & Wiedenhorn, 2020b), the colleagues from  the University College Syddanmark had to withdraw their chapter during  the publication process. For this chapter we have decided to consider their  information from the queries although their chapter is missing. In the queries  to the project partners, the following questions were asked:  1. What are the framework and curricular details of your SATE concept?  2. Which study objectives and competencies do you target for your student  teachers?  3. How do schools become SATE schools?  4. How are the participating teachers prepared for the project?  5. How can student teachers participate? Who are the student teachers who  take part?  6. How are participating student teachers prepared for the adoption week?  7. What are the areas for development and improvement?  Following each concept table, selected aspects are compared, discussed or  questioned. We then made some initial considerations, intended to stim‐ ulate further analysis and research both within individual SATE concepts  and across them. These considerations concern, among others, the role of  teachers, the formulation of the concepts’ objectives and the selection of  student teachers. Based on these comparisons and considerations, our first  conclusion is that student teachers do not take over all tasks of teachers  during adoption week. Our second conclusion is that all SATE concepts are  led by the universities to different degrees and, that for an ideal type of a  cooperative partnership, the element of criticism is missing. A Comparative Synopsis of International School Adoption Concepts 23  A Comparative Synopsis Curricular frameworks In the different teacher education programs, SATE is part of regular and  longer teacher education internships, either for Bachelor or Master student  teachers (Table 1). As a consequence, none of the adoption weeks are credited  with ECTS1 points. But at most partner institutions, a certain number of ECTS  credits can be earned by passing the regular practicum in which SATE is  integrated.  PSU  (Russia) NTNU  (Nor‐ way) EUF  (Ger‐ many) UCSyd  (Den‐ mark) PHWG  (Ger‐ many)  Semester of first school  adoption 2016 1999 2014/15 2014/15 2015/16  Duration of adoption in  weeks 1 1 1 1 1  Duration of practicum of  which the adoption is part  (in weeks) 7 8 10–12 10 14  Bachelor or Master student  teachers Bachelor Master Master Bachelor Bachelor ECTS credits for the  adoption week none none none none none  ECTS credits for the  practicum around adoption not ap‐ plicablenone 30 10 15 + 12  for four  uni‐ versity  seminars Table 1: Framework information The first school adoption was carried out at the Norwegian University of  Science and Technology as early as 1999. The Europa-Universität Flensburg  and the University College Syddanmark then conducted their first, each in  the winter semester 2014/2015. These pilot projects were thus prior to the  actual start of the Erasmus+ project and allowed the project itself to build  on the many years of experience of one partner and the first experiences of  1 European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System.24 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  two others, which was certainly beneficial to the success of both the overall  project and the local ones. As Janssen and Wiedenhorn (2020b, p. 10 ) show,  the structures and further developments of the local (or institutional) SATE  concepts can be described as a kind of policy borrowing. The variations in the  projects are reflected in the different target groups of student teachers and  the different durations, varying between seven and 14 weeks. The objectives  and competencies are relatively similar and yet different.  What the participating student teachers should learn during the project  and be able to do afterwards is based on national standards and curricula.  In addition, there are individual focal points of the respective institutions  (Table 2). While the formulations of objectives and competencies relating to  teaching could probably also apply to other internship concepts in teacher  education, objectives formulated with regard to school organization and  the independent decision-making processes of the student teachers during  adoption week appear to be a special feature of SATE (Bandorski, 2020, p. 93 ).  Study goals and competencies for participating student  teachers  PSU (Russia) – Full immersion in real school life flanked by teaching didactic,  methods and reflection.  NTNU  (Norway) – Learning to be able to act independently, responsibly and to  make decisions in the school context; learning to be able to work  individually, and in teams, to achieve a smooth progression for  their respective schools.  EUF  (Germany) – Improving student teachers’ teaching skills, including preparation,  evaluation and reflection of lessons.  – Gaining a deeper insight into the complexity of their futures, and  their responsibility for the organization of the school’s routine.  UCSyd  (Denmark) – A list of skills and knowledge which complies with national and  institutional regulations and requirements for teacher education. A  main focus on student teachers doing research projects.  PHWG  (Germany) – To involve student teachers more deeply in their future profes‐ sional field.  Table 2: Study goals and competencies Specific objectives for the adoption week were not always given. School  adoption in this sense is not only the week itself but its integration into  a broader frame, i.e. another internship. The emphasis on compliance with  curricular standards and competencies is striking. It appears to be a necessity  to emphasize that school adoptions are not free-floating experiments. Rather, A Comparative Synopsis of International School Adoption Concepts 25  they are described as curricular components of teacher education programs  that need to be, and can be, legitimized.  Noteworthy is the use of comparative adjectives (“more deeply”, “a deeper  complexity”) in the goals and competencies. It does not become clear here  whether these comparisons are made with regard to a different internship,  or with regards to an ideal of teacher education that is not defined and made  explicit. In this sense, SATE is either considered as an option for “improving”  not the current structures and contents of teacher education programs but its  outcomes for the student teachers. Or, it is considered as a way of approach‐ ing an ideal.  The schools and the teachers It is obvious that schools and teachers play a crucial role in SATE. In some  concepts the teachers and the school management leave the school (EuropaUniversität Flensburg), in others only the teachers leave and the rest of the  staff (management, social workers, secretaries, etc.) remain in the school  during adoption week (Norwegian University of Science and Technology  and University of Education Weingarten). But how do schools become part  of the project? And how are the teachers prepared for their work with the  student teachers in SATE? In the following tables these questions are briefly  answered (Table 3 and Table 4).  Selection of schools  PSU (Russia) – School chooses to participate voluntarily but has to be part of the  university pedagogical cluster.  NTNU  (Norway) – All schools which receive student teachers from the five-year  integrated program are obliged to carry out adoptions.  EUF  (Germany) – Schools apply for participation to the university; the SATE  university team and the local school authority select a school  from the list of applicants.  UCSyd  (Denmark) – The partner school in the project has been a partner in other  projects for many years.  PHWG  (Germany) – Participating schools were suggested by the local school authority  based on regional and school management reasons. Schools can  participate if school boards and representatives of the school  committees (teachers and parents) agree to do so; approval is  limited to one year and must then be applied for anew.  Table 3: Selection of schools26 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  Preparation of teachers for mentoring  PSU (Russia) – Teachers do not have mentor status but prepare student teachers  for adoption week.  NTNU  (Norway) – Teachers receive a mentoring course from the university.  EUF  (Germany) – The headteacher and a team of teachers are provided with general  information about the project during several meetings. One of  those meetings focuses on mentoring the student teachers.  UCSyd  (Denmark) – Senior lecturers from the College prepare school teachers by  providing courses that focus on lesson studies and mentoring  (didactic conversations).  PHWG  (Germany) – All teachers are mentors who, in part, prepare the student teachers  for selected aspects of adoption week; however, teachers receive no  specific preparation for SATE and the adoption week.  Table 4: Preparation of teachers for mentoring Both the variations in how schools become project schools and how teachers  are prepared for SATE (Table 4) are wide. For the former, it ranges from  the continuation of a long-standing cooperation (University College Syddan‐ mark), to solely formal regulations (Norwegian University of Science and  Technology), to the selection of project schools not by the university but  by a third partner, namely the school authorities, alone (University of Edu‐ cation Weingarten). It includes either a voluntary (Penza State University)  or compulsory participation of schools (Norwegian University of Science and  Technology). Sensitive questions here address, among other things, school  and education policy issues as to which school can and may attend a joint  professional development course during adoption week and which schools  not. In particular, if the project takes place at a selected school, its teachers  can do such a course regularly, while other schools are excluded from such an  opportunity in the long turn. Another policy issue here is that the University  of Education Weingarten, at least, is made accountable (Furlong, McNamara,  Campbell, Howson & Lewis, 2008) by representatives of the school com‐ mittees (teachers and parents) and school authorities (Table 3). This way,  the university becomes dependent on their judgements, which can prevent  SATE from being carried out. And with regards to the project goals of giving  student teachers a realistic insight into their future profession, questions can  be asked such as How are these realities of the project schools? How do these  realities relate to teacher educators’ vision of an ideal school reality? How do A Comparative Synopsis of International School Adoption Concepts 27  these realities differ from the realities of non-project schools? How do these  realities affect student teachers’ learning, and professionalization ?  These questions also address the roles and functions of the participating  teachers. How are they prepared to work with the student teachers? Here too  the variation is wide: While at the University College Syddanmark, teach‐ ers were specifically prepared, others give teachers only general, or a very  brief, or no project-specific preparation at all. This variation can have many  reasons: The different time spans from the beginning of the project to the  adoption week in the individual universities (Table 1), different curricular  aims of SATE (Table 2), different degrees of involvement of the university  and third party partners in the preparation of the student teachers, such as  the “Institute for Quality Development at Schools in Schleswig-Holstein” (see  below and Table 6).  But there is also another aspect: If the future profession is to be experi‐ enced as realistically as possible, i.e. authentically, didacticization would run  counter to this goal, at least to a certain degree. It follows from this that,  instead of predominantly preparatory mentoring, a directly accompanying  and/or follow-up concept is needed to achieve this goal. Such concepts are  either mentioned or briefly described in all chapters. In these, however, it is  not the teachers, but the lecturers of the universities or the third party part‐ ners who analyze and reflect with the student teachers. Thus, the perspectives  of the teachers, who fundamentally shape and create the school realities the  student teachers have experienced in the project, are not taken into account  in the decisive moment of reflection. But all those who have (co-)produced the  objects of reflection should be involved in the reflection, the student teachers,  the universitybased and third party mentors and the teachers. This way,  student teaching would become more comprehensible: As an interplay of the  different perspectives, such a joint reflection would create a situated frame  of orientation and interpretation of the student teacher’s actions during the  project. In this sense, reflection can be regarded as a social process of mutual  reference and relation (Alkemeyer, Buschmann & Michaeler, 2015, p. 32–37),  and not as a cognitive process of an individual only.  Selection and preparation of student teachers With regard to the student teachers, similar questions arise as with regard  to the schools and teachers: How do they become part of the project and  how are they prepared and accompanied? At the participating higher edu‐28 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  cation teacher education institutions, SATE is sometimes a voluntary offer  for interested student teachers, and sometimes a compulsory part of a study  program, or an offer for the best (Table 5).  Selection and allocation of student teachers  PSU (Russia) – Only the best-qualified student teachers, i.e. those who achieve at a  high level are recruited to participate in the project.  NTNU  (Norway) – Student teachers on the five-year integrated teacher education  program automatically take part.  EUF  (Germany) – Student teachers register voluntarily for participation; the  allocation to the project takes place via the internship office of  the university in coordination with the school.  UCSyd  (Denmark) – All 3rd year student teachers are obliged to participate.  PHWG  (Germany) – Student teachers indicate their interest in participating in the  project at the university’s internship office. It decides on the  allocation to the project in coordination with the school.  Table 5: Selection and allocation of student teachers As for the schools, the variation of how student teachers can become part of  SATE is wide: Not only that, depending on the institution, they are some‐ times Bachelor, sometimes Master students; they can participate voluntarily  (Europa-Universität Flensburg and University of Education Weingarten), are  obliged to do so (Norwegian University of Science and Technology and Uni‐ versity College Syddanmark), or they are only allowed to join the project if  they achieve better than their peers (Penza State University). The reasons for  these differences cannot be explained in this overview. However, it offers a  starting point to researching assumptions and beliefs of the involved teacher  educators: Why is participation voluntary, mandatory or reserved for the  best? According to which criteria are the student teachers selected? How  do these assumptions and beliefs relate to the goals of the project and the  functions of the people involved? In addition, the question arises as to the  influence of the structure and organization of teacher education programs,  especially where the allocation of student teachers is carried out by an in‐ ternship office that allocates primarily according to organizational matters  (University of Education Weingarten).  Prior to adoption week, student teachers are prepared for their parti‐ cipation in very different ways (Table 6). The formats differ according  to their content, their duration and the responsible institutions involved. A Comparative Synopsis of International School Adoption Concepts 29  Basically, the content focuses on teaching, but also includes small-scale re‐ search projects (University College Syddanmark).2 Involved stakeholders are  not only school-based mentors (teachers) and university lecturers, but also  third parties, such as the “Institute for Quality Development at Schools in  Schleswig-Holstein” (IQSH; Gosch & Großmann, 2020).  Preparation of student teachers for adoption week  PSU (Russia) – During a six-week practice period, student teachers get to know  the classes, teach and receive feedback on their teaching from their  university mentors.  NTNU  (Norway) – Specific briefings and planning meetings are held in the adoption  schools, involving professional mentors and the student teachers.  EUF  (Germany) – At university, student teachers participate in seminars with a focus  on school pedagogy. They visit the school and the classes and  attend parent-teacher conferences together with the university  staff.  – Teachers prepare student teachers for lesson planning.  – The IQSH organizes eight obligatory appointments (each lasting  three hours) focusing on student teachers’ reflections and  experiences from school and teaching.  UCSyd  (Denmark) – Preparation for teaching and classroom research projects: Both are  intertwined, for example, visiting schools and classes, performing  lesson studies, and planning which (didactical) problems to  examine and which research methods to use.  PHWG  (Germany) – Preparation time lasts eleven weeks both in school and at  university, including obligatory visits by university staff to student  teachers’ lessons in school.  – At university, student teachers have weekly seminars on didactics  and teaching methods, lesson studies, and classroom management,  etc. Additionally, they have two weekly seminars on the didactics  of their respective study subjects.  – At school, the teachers introduce the student teachers to their  teaching culture and supports in lesson planning; the school  management introduces student teachers to aspects of school  law and school organizational matters.  Table 6: Preparation of student teachers As Table 6 shows, different stakeholders are responsible for the preparation  of the student teachers as a whole or in part. One interesting aspect here is  2 For further considerations on the concept underlying the approach at the Univer‐ sity College Syddanmark: Carlsen & von Oettingen (2020), von Oettingen, Carlsen  and Thorgaard (2019, p. 20).30 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  that what is labelled as “preparation” at the University of Education Wein‐ garten is in fact another internship independent of SATE that the student  teachers have to pass (Janssen & Wiedenhorn, 2020a). It is noticeable that the  preparation mainly addresses the planning of lessons and matters of teaching  classes (Penza State University, Europa-Universität Flensburg, University of  Education Weingarten). It remains unclear whether these competencies and  contents build on other internships and are continued here at a higher level,  or whether they are repeated here, or introduced to the student teachers for  the first time. Other aspects, such as legal aspects of working with parents  or supervising breaks, reflection appears only marginally – if at all. This is  noticeable because SATE is often described as an internship in which the  student teachers not only teach but also take over other tasks of the teachers.  However, it is difficult to say to what extent the tasks taken on by the  student teachers in SATE actually differ from those in other internships.  Apart from (planning) teaching, the tasks mentioned include, for example,  supervising breaks, dealing with educational issues or parental work. These  are tasks which are presumably at least conceptually intended in other in‐ ternships, too. The same might be true for evaluating one’s own teaching  and developing a research design (University College Syddanmark). The fact  that student teachers take on organizational and administrative tasks at class  level (keeping class registers, checking attendance, etc.), however, is probably  a special feature of SATE. Overall, it can be assumed that it is less the tasks  themselves that make an important difference. But firstly, the amount and  number of the tasks during adoption week might make a difference. Secondly,  it could be the mode of carrying out these tasks, namely that decisions and  actions can be taken unobserved by and independent of mentors. Based on  the chapters of this volume and the written queries to the SATE partners,  tasks such as the diagnosis of pupils’ learning, the evaluation and grading of  their work, aspects of counselling pupils and parents over a longer period of  time, do not play an important role. Otherwise the absence of these and other  keywords for typical tasks of teachers could not be explained. Or, thought  of differently with regards to the teacher educators: What does “planning  teaching” and “teaching” mean to them? Does it include the named aspects  or is it (just) about sequencing time didactically? What are their demands on  the student teachers’ teaching during adoption week? A Comparative Synopsis of International School Adoption Concepts 31  Developments All project partners report on developments and transformations of their  SATE concept. While some institutions want to improve specific aspects,  such as mentoring, tasks for student teachers, or reflection (including a  funded follow-up project), others plan to extend it to more extensive forms  of adoption or to other teacher education programs.  Matters for development & improvement of SATE  PSU (Russia) – Conceptualizing and carrying out a full adoption, including all  grades and teachers of a school.  NTNU  (Norway) – Working with children with special needs, creating more  awareness of them during the course of the project.  EUF  (Germany) – Conceptualizing and carrying out a school adoption in secondary  schools.  UCSyd  (Denmark) – Stronger focus on curricular competencies regarding the tasks  student teachers have to complete.  – Focus on expectations of the involved stakeholder.  PHWG  (Germany) – Follow-up project focuses on videography during adoption week,  aiming at (1) developing a blended-learning tool for teaching and  mentoring student teachers, and (2) researching school adoption.  Table 7: Matters for development and improvement Conclusion The aspects presented above show that SATE is not a homogeneous construct  or concept. Instead, it differs widely between the institutions regarding the  study programs of which SATE is part, the stakeholders involved, curricular  details (such as ECTS points), the project duration, the selection of student  teachers and schools, the tasks student teachers do and do not take over  during adoption week, etc. Thus it seems that the conceptualization and  implementation of SATE has led to intensive “pedagogical negotiations and  arguments” (Ottesen, Lund, Grams, Aas & Prøitz, 2013, p. 464) within each  university and between the stakeholders involved to provide a framework  fitting for their student teachers to take an extended responsibility within the  different curricula of the university partners, and also fitting for the teachers  of the partner schools to undertake joint in-service professional development. 32 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  Despite other considerations (Bach, 2017; Gosch & Großmann, 2020), all  SATE concepts seem to be led by a university partner because it orchestrates  the overall arrangements, delegates individual tasks to other stakeholders  (Smith, Brisard & Menter, 2006), and guarantees the curricular fit. As a  university-led partnership, it is not a fully collaborative one (Furlong et al.,  1996, p. 44). For SATE, all have engaged in dialogues about how it can be  conceptualized and implemented at their university; a dialogue which had  different consequences for the individual designs and implementations of  SATE. These concepts are coherent, have tasks, aims and goals and describe  processes of, and for, professional learning of student teachers. But under  this project umbrella, tasks and responsibilities are divided between the  stakeholders, and are not taken up together but separately. It seems to be  the case that student teachers and teachers, university mentors, and other  stakeholders work collaboratively only sporadically, if at all.3 For a fully  collaborative partnership in the sense of Furlong and colleagues (1996, p. 44),  however, this would be a precondition of the possibility of criticism as a  means of, and for, professional learning.4 It therefore remains to be analyzed  whether either the possibilities and leeway offered by SATE have yet been  fully exploited.  References Alkemeyer, T., Buschmann, N., & Michaeler, M. (2015). Kritik als Praxis. Plä‐ doyer für eine subjektivierungstheoretische Erweiterung der Praxistheorien.  In T. Alkemeyer, V. Schürmann, & J. Volbers (Eds.), Praxis denken. Konzepte  und Kritik  (pp. 25–50). Wiesbaden: Springer VS, https://doi.org/10.1007/9783-658-08744-9_2.  Bach, A. (2017). Partnerschaftsmodelle in der Lehrerinnenund Lehrerbildung.  Das Flensburger Modell “Schuladoption”. In U. Fraefel & A. Seel (Eds.),  Konzeptionelle Perspektiven Schulpraktischer Studien. Partnerschaftsmodelle –  Praktikumskonzepte – Begleitformate  (pp. 43–56) . Münster: Waxmann.  3 Janssen (2019) makes a similar observation in his analysis of university school  concepts in teacher education. 4 And not for evaluations only. On a organizational level both the SATE and the  university-school-partnerships could be explored more deeply using Callahan and  Martins’ (2007) typology for identifying and evaluating these partnerships as  learning systems.A Comparative Synopsis of International School Adoption Concepts 33  Bandorski, S. (2020). Evaluation of the school adoption in teacher education –  project. A primer on approach and main findings. In M. Janssen & T.  Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 91 –98 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Callahan, J. & Martin, D. (2007). The spectrum of school–university partner‐ ships: A typology of organizational learning systems. Teaching and Teacher  Education, 23 (2), 136–145, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tate.2006.04.038.  Carlsen, D. & von Oettingen, A. (2020) Universitetsskolen – et bud på en  didaktisk orienteret forskningsbasering af læreruddannelsen. Acta Didactica  Norden, 14  (2), https://doi.org/10.5617/adno.7912.  Furlong, J.; Whitty, G.; Whiting, C.; Miles, S.; Barton, L. & Barrett, E. (1996).  Re-defining partnership: Revolution or reform in initial teacher education?  Journal of Education for Teaching, 22 (1), 39–55, https://doi.org/10.1080/ 02607479650038418 .  Furlong, J.; McNamara, O.; Campbell, A.; Howson, J. & Lewis, S. (2008). Part‐ nership, policy and politics: initial teacher education in England under New  Labour. Teachers and Teaching: Theory and practice, (14) 4, 307–318, https:// doi.org/10.1080/13540600802037728 .  Gosch, J. & Großmann, K. (2020). School adoption as a collaborative partnership  in teacher education at the Europa-Universität Flensburg. In M. Janssen & T.  Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 75 –81 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Janssen, M. (2019). Universitetsskoler som spatiotemporale ordninger – indblik  i en kvalitativ tekstanalyse af universitetsskolekoncepter In A. von Oettin‐ gen & K. Thorgård (Eds.): Universitetsskolen mellem forskning, uddannelse og  skoleudvikling  (pp. 37–50). Frederikshavn: Dafalo.  Janssen, M. & Wiedenhorn, T. (2020a). The theory of practice architectures and  the core practice approach as theoretical perspectives on school adoption.  An example from the University of Education Weingarten. In M. Janssen &  T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 57 –73 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Janssen, M. & Wiedenhorn, T. (2020b). Editorial: School adoption in teacher  education. Increasing pre-service teachers’ responsibility during practice. In  M. Janssen & T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education.  Increasing pre-service teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 9 –14 ). Mün‐ ster: Waxmann, https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Merket, M. & Morud, E. (2020). School adoption 2.0. A new practice model for  teacher education at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology . 34 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  In M. Janssen & T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education.  Increasing pre-service teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 35 –55 ). Mün‐ ster: Waxmann, https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Miles, M. B.; Huberman, A. M. & Saldaña, J. (2019). Qualitative data analysis: A  methods sourcebook  (4th ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.  Ottesen, E.; Lund, B.; Grams, S.; Aas, M., & Prøitz, T. S. (2013). Educational  methods as commodities within European Education: A Norwegian-Danish  case. European Educational Research Journal , 12(4), 463–479, https://doi.org/ 10.2304/eerj.2013.12.4.463 .  Smith, I.; Brisard, E. & Menter, I. (2006) Models of partnership developments  in initial teacher education in the four components of the United Kingdom:  Recent trends and current challenges, Journal of Education for Teaching, 32 (2),  147–164, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02607470600655136 .  Surina, O. & Pavlova, N. (2020). Development of school adoption for building  professional competencies at Penza State University. In M. Janssen & T.  Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 83 –90 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  von Oettingen, A.; Carlsen, D. & Thorgaard, K. (2019). Tematisk indføring:  Universitetsskolen – mellem skole, uddannelse og forskning. In A. von Oet‐ tingen & K. Thorgaard, K. (Eds.), Universitetsskolen. Mellem skole, uddannelse  og forskning  (pp. 11–26). Frederikshavn: Dafolo. School Adoption 2.0  A New Practice Model for Teacher Education  at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology  Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud  Summary This article presents and analyzes a new model for practice training in  teacher education. The model is called School Adoption 2.0  and was piloted  in the spring of 2017. The new national guidelines for teacher education em‐ phasize strengthening practice training, and the development of the model is  an attempt to accommodate this. The aims have been to provide students with  a form of practice so that they can experience a stronger progression and in‐ creased independence in their training, and to develop a practice training that  strengthens the link between theory and practice. The pilot has been analyzed  by conducting interviews with students and supervisors after completion, as  well as collecting written reflections. The model builds on the theory of the  relationship between theory and practice through Kemmis and Grootenboer’s  theory of practice architectures. Furthermore, the pilot and data collection  are illustrated. In our analysis the three categories: (1) Professional training  through building responsibility and independence, (2) Professional training  and the relationship with pupils, and (3) Professional training at the intersec‐ tion of theory and practice were be developed.  The findings support the idea that school adoption can contribute to a  closer connection between theory and practice and that it can contribute to  increased independence in practice training.  Introduction The Norwegian government emphasizes education as one of the key in‐ struments for achieving the goal of sustainable and inclusive development  in Europe. The government also promotes education through international  projects such as Europe 2020. One of the goals of the strategy is to increase  the proportion of students in higher education in the member countries,  including Norway (Eurostat, 2017). Focusing on school education through 36 Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud  international projects also shows that education is seen as an important basis  for growth and development.  A focus on better teacher education is important for the development of  society, both at national and individual levels (Darling-Hammond, 2006). The  increasing complexity of education means that the need for good teachers  has increased, which in turn increases the pressure on institutions such as  the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) to provide a  comprehensive teacher education. The complex relationship between theory  and practice within teacher education is also of topical concern, both interna‐ tionally (Darling-Hammond, 2006; Grossman, Hammerness & McDonald, 2009;  Hammerness, 2013) and nationally (Grimen, 2008; Kvernbekk, 2011; Lillejord  & Børte, 2017; Løvlie, 2016; Molander & Terum, 2008). In some countries, the  response has been to focus more on practice, while Lillejord and Børte’s (2017)  research indicates that closer collaboration between school and university  can contribute to stronger links between theory and practice. Grossman et  al. (2009) also point to the challenge in the relationship between theory and  practice, arguing for closer links between theory and practice, and between  teacher educators and teachers in school. Teacher education is a professional  education, which means that practice training is an integral element (Grimen,  2008). The challenge lies in how its elements are integrated, and how closer  links and increased collaboration are to be organized (Sjølie, 2017).  Closer collaboration between universities and schools is not only about  students’ educational practices, but also about their transition from education  into the teaching profession. Both research and policy show that there is a  need to close the gap between what students acquire during their education  and what they experience as they enter the teaching profession. Research on  newly qualified teachers shows that one of the reasons teachers quit during  their first few years in the profession is because the transition from teacher  studies to employment is experienced as challenging (Johnson et al., 2014;  Østern & Engvik, 2016). The burden of the first years as a new educator is  great for many, and there is rarely a smooth transition into the teaching  profession. Partly, this is because it is common for schools to expect newly  qualified teachers to take the same responsibility for pupils1 and teaching as  a more experienced teacher.  1 We use pupils  synonymous with school students , to avoid confusion with student   [teacher ]s.School Adoption 2.0 37  In order to strengthen teacher education and its relevance to the pro‐ fession, the National Council for Teacher Education prepared new national  guidelines for teacher education in the fall of 2017. The guidelines cover,  among other things, the students’ practice training, and state that:  “Practice is a learning arena in parallel with campus-based education. The  two learning arenas have different areas of responsibility, but share respon‐ sibility for the student’s professional development and final competence”  (Munthe & Engelien, 2017, p. 15, translated by the authors2).  Three aspects of this practical training should be strengthened: (1) practical  training must be guided, assessed, and varied, (2) there must be progression  in practical training, and (3) the students must have a continuous period of  practice during the last two years of their education, with a particular focus  on independent training responsibilities. These three points relate to key ele‐ ments that will contribute to the students’ knowledge and skills development  during the practical periods. Our pilot tries to meet the expectations of the  practical training, especially regarding the last two points.  In this article, we explore how we can develop a practice where students  experience increased progression and independence in practice training. We  ask the question: How is practice training experienced in School Adoption 2.0?   When we use the term practice  in this context, we mean the practical training  that is arranged by the institution, and it includes the time the students  receive training in schools. Furthermore, with insight from international  development work and the new guidelines for practice training, we have  developed and evaluated a new model for practice training for senior stu‐ dents. We have called this pilot School Adoption 2.0 . The aim was to give the  students a new form of practical experience, so that they will experience a  stronger progression and increased independence. Participating in the pilot,  where they are given responsibility for the pupils and the teaching of sub‐ jects, without a supervisor being present, helps to build a bridge between  theory and practice, and to facilitate the transition from guided practice  into  professional practice .  In the article, we present some theoretical considerations regarding a  model for the link between theory and practice, using the concept of practice  architectures. We also describe how the pilot was conducted and how we  2 All translations in this chapter are those of the authors.38 Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud  analyzed its implementation. Finally, findings from the pilot are discussed in  relation to the theoretical considerations.  Theoretical Framework Teacher education is a professional education, which means that the students  will be educated to become part of the teaching profession. A professional  education consists of theoretical and practical knowledge where professional  practice is one of the goals. Therefore, one of the most important issues in  professional theory is the interaction between theory and practice (Grimen,  2008). The transfer of theoretical aspects taught at the university or college  to practical implementation in the field of practice is particularly challenging  due to the diversity of context and culture (Eraut, 2009). As described earlier,  this particular link between theory and practice is a much-debated topic,  both nationally and internationally. Skagen (2016) describes how this has  also been a source of discussion in teacher education. The dichotomous  understanding of the relationship between theory and practice is problematic,  and new perspectives on the relationship have been introduced (Sjølie, 2014).  “Instead of separating theory and practice as separate entities, theory can  be seen as embedded in practice at different levels” (Sjølie, 2014, pp. 15–16).  Understanding theoretical knowledge and practical knowledge, and how to  construct them in education, is, therefore, a challenge.  Kemmis and Grootenboer (2008) have presented a relevant perspective  in understanding the link between theory and practice, and a model for  guidance and education, through the concept of practice architectures. Ma‐ hon, Francisco and Kemmis (2017) describe how, in the theory of practice,  practice architectures are seen as social phenomena located in a particular  context with a specific history. Seeing practice as a social and situational  phenomenon means that practice is not only viewed from an individual  perspective, but a phenomenon that is characterized and shaped by rela‐ tionships that exist in the social community in which it occurs. The theory  of practice architectures makes it clear how a student’s practice is defined  through language, actions, and relationships in interaction with actors in and  outside the field of practice. “Practice architectures [ . . . ] prefigure practices,  enabling and constraining particular kinds of sayings, doings and relation‐ ships among people within them, and in relation to others outside them”  (Kemmis & Grootenboer, 2008, p. 57). “Practice architecture is thus the his‐School Adoption 2.0 39    Figure 1: Practice architectures in teacher education  torical conditions that are both shaped by people and can be changed by  people” (Østern & Engvik, 2016, p. 22). The model shows how a student’s  practice is characterized by the context in which it takes place, and how  the various elements affect each other, or how the students’ development is  established through their language, actions and relationships in interaction  with different discourses.  According to Kemmis and Grootenboer (2008), practice architectures  consist of three types of conditions: (1) Cultural-discursive, (2) materialeconomic, and (3) social-political (Figure 1) 3. Firstly, the cultural-discursive  conditions influence the student’s linguistic interaction – with school staff,  supervisors, and fellow students (Kemmis & Grootenboer, 2008, pp. 42–43).  What words are used, and what is, and is not, being discussed in the field of  practice that confronts the student are factors that characterize the student’s  practice. The cultural-discursive conditions and the student’s practice form a  semantic space in which the student is an active participant. The school’s se‐ mantic space can promote or inhibit the student’s development through what  3 The figure is taken from Sjølie (2014, p. 47). In the original, it is labbeled “The site  for practice”. For our purposes, we have given it a different title.40 Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud  is said, discussed, problematized, and confronted in the school’s community.  Secondly, the student’s school practice is also affected by the material-eco‐ nomic conditions in which the practice takes place. The material-economic  conditions form a physical space, the conditions of which can promote or  inhibit the student’s practice and development (Kemmis & Grootenboer,  2008, pp. 44–45). Thirdly, the final element of practice architectures that the  authors (2008, pp. 47–48) define is the social-political conditions, which de‐ scribe how the student’s development is characterized by relationships with  supervisors, school staff, fellow students, the management at the school, etc.  These social relationships in the field of practice help to inhibit or promote  the student’s learning in practice and create a physical space enabling these  relations.  These three spaces, social, semantic, and physical, thus help to illumi‐ nate the relationship between theory and practice as characterized by many  aspects of practice teaching. The student’s professional development in the  teacher education program involves various forms of practice architectures,  where the student engages in situations that characterize different aspects  of learning (Kemmis & Grootenboer, 2008, p. 59). The social, semantic, and  physical spaces manifest themselves in the student’s everyday life as diffe‐ rent arenas, where the student is influenced by, and herself influences, the  prevailing architectures, for example, in school or at the university. The three  architectures interact in the student’s everyday life in such a way that one  must see them in context to understand how they influence each other. These  are not competing arenas, but should be viewed as arenas that complement  each other, and, as we see it, part of the student’s learning and development  is to be able to see the connection between them.  Description of the School Adoption 2.0 Pilot Project The School Adoption 2.0  pilot was completed during an eight-week long  practice period that students have in their eighth semester. The practice  school is a secondary school with approximately 450 pupils. The school is  in a partnership with NTNU, and eleven students were placed at the school  during this period. They had regular practice in the first six weeks, before  completing school adoption in the seventh week. This is the week in which  the students took over the teaching, and responsibility for 150 pupils in one  step. The students were given contact teacher responsibility for different School Adoption 2.0 41  classes and the responsibility for following up and organizing the pupils’  work throughout the week. During this time, the in-service teachers were  away from the school, working on school development, while the school’s  management and the rest of the staff were at the school as usual. In the last  week, the students summed up and reflected on their experiences during the  previous week. The pilot was conducted according to this schedule (Table 1):  Week Practice Description  1–6 Ordinary  practiceThe students undergo regular practice. All formal  requirements of the teacher education program during  the practice period were implemented during these  weeks.  7 School adoption  2.0 pilotThe students took up their school duties. One of  the students became a manager and took the main  responsibility for this week. All other students were  given contact teacher responsibility for a class.  The management was present at the school, and the rest  of the school operated normally, while the teachers used  the time for school development.  8 Reflection week The students completed the practice in the classes this  week, which was used for reflective discussions with the  tutors and teacher educators.  Table 1: S chool adoption 2.0  schedule The purpose of the students’ practice period is to prepare the students to  practice their profession (National framework for the five-year integrated  teacher education program 8–13, 2013). It is a recognition that there are  aspects of the teaching profession that the students cannot theoretically  acquire within the university campus, but that knowledge and understanding  of many aspects of the teaching profession are created through practice at  school, through interactions with pupils, students and supervisors working  at school.  Data Collection and Analysis Practical training will help the students’ knowledge and understanding of the  teaching profession to be developed through interactions between students  and the actors they meet in the school community. Based on this understand‐ ing of the practice period, this analysis has a qualitative approach within  a constructivist paradigm (Stake, 1995). In order to highlight the students’ 42 Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud  and supervisors’ experiences of the practical training during school adoption,  we have used a phenomenological methodology (Crotty, 1998). The purpose  of the study was to distill the essence of the students’ and supervisors’  experiences, indicating our goal was to explore what significance school  adoption has had for participants, not to explore School Adoption 2.0  itself  (Szklarski, 2015). In order to gather these experiences, the researcher had to  talk to those who had them (Postholm, 2010). The pilot that was conducted  at one school, in one grade, in one week. Data were collected after this week  using interviews with students and teachers, as well as reflection notes from  groups of students and tutors. This was to ensure the widest possible range  of material to analyze (Stake, 1995).  Our personal-professional background is important for our research  work. We are teachers first, and then teacher educators, and we both have  more than ten years of professional experience in the same school in which  the pilot was conducted. Today we work in teacher education, but in different  fields. While one of us has been close to practice training and initiated  the development of School Adoption 2.0  from the start, the other has been  completely outside the process and was able to take an external view of  the research work that has been carried out. We both participated in the  collection and analysis of the data.  For data collection we used interviews and reflection notes. A semistructured interview was conducted with three students and two teachers.  The students were selected randomly based on scheduling considerations.  The teachers we interviewed were selected by the coordinator at the school,  based on our desire to talk to two teachers who had varied experiences  with practice guidance and school development, and based on some years of  teaching a range of subjects. In the interviews, we set up dialogues between  us and the participants, and between the participants, whom we wanted to  present their experiences of school adoption. The main topics we addressed  were about challenges that arose, which they would not otherwise have  experienced during the regular practice period, before school adoption was  introduced. We also addressed topics such as the relationship between theory  and practice, and how school adoption contributes to teacher education.  The week after school adoption itself, a reflection session was conducted,  with the participation of the relevant teachers, tutors, students, and educa‐ tors. The reflection session was led by a teacher educator and was conducted  as a guided conversation in smaller groups, where teachers and students School Adoption 2.0 43  shared experiences of school adoption. These experiences were shared in  plenary using the Padlet program, where notes can be shared on a screen with  the other participants. The notes from the reflection session are also included  in our data. The students’ and supervisors’ answers to the questions from  the interviews and reflections were categorized immediately after they were  completed. We had an inductive approach to categorization, where we went  through what had been expressed without having set themes in advance. By  first sorting out what had been expressed on the basis that the content of  the expressions had a coherent meaning, and further reducing the data, we  have tried to crystallize the essence of what the students and the supervisors  experienced. Based on the questions we discussed in the interviews and the  answers we received, we found that the responses could be categorized into  several themes (Table 2).  The reliability of the material was enhanced by having the interview  subjects read through our interpretations and categorizations from the inter‐ views and approve them before we finalized the work. We also collated data  from our sources in different ways, through the semi-structured interviews,  and through the notes they wrote in the reflection groups. Both the inter‐ views and the reflection session took place in the week after the completion  of the school adoption so that the experiences were relatively fresh when the  data were collected.  Findings and Initial Discussion The interviews with the students and the supervisors, and the notes from the  reflection talks after school adoption form the basis for the results presented.  Both in the focus group interviews with the students and supervisors, and  on the reflection day after the practice, many of the same elements were  discussed. In the interviews with the students, they agreed that they gained  new perspectives on the teaching profession. They also gained greater insight  into what is going on around and outside the classroom and have seen that  this has an impact on what happens in the classroom. Necessary decisions  concerning pupils and their learning had to be taken by the students on  their own, and the fact that the supervisor was not present contributed to  a different relationship with the pupils. The students also said that they  have gained a different understanding of the meaning of pupil relationships.  Furthermore, they also talked about how the theory they learned in their 44 Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud  studies became relevant for dealing with various situations, and they saw that  participation in school adoption has helped them understand the complexity  of a teacher’s day.  The supervisors also felt that the students gained experience during this  week, which they would not otherwise get in ordinary practice sessions. They  emphasized that the students were trying to handle matters on their own,  as part of the everyday life of the school. The supervisors also emphasized  that students saw a more complete picture of the teaching profession. They  pointed out that, in teacher education, pedagogy and subject didactics are  often treated as being more separate than they are in school. Through school  adoption, students have had to take responsibility and work together. They  have had to find their own solutions and find that they cannot always ‘go by  the book’.  Following school adoption, both students and tutors mentioned vulnera‐ ble students as a challenge, both academically and socially. They stressed the  importance of giving this student group extra attention in the planning of the  school adoption, to ensure that they feel as secure during this week as they  do normally.  We categorized the responses into the following three categories: (1)  Professional training and its relation to responsibility and independence,  (2) Professional training and relationships with pupils, and (3) Professional  training at the intersection between theory and practice. The findings, as  described above, are summarized in the following table (Table 2): School Adoption 2.0 45  Focus group interview with  students Focus group interview with  supervisors Reflections – students and  supervisors  Professional  training and  its relation to  responsibility  and indepen‐ dence The students expressed an increased  sense of responsibility. They  described it as realistic to have  the responsibility inside and outside  the classroom. Furthermore, they  described how the absence of a  supervisor led them to rely on their  own decisions. The supervisors felt that the  students had more experience in  making their own choices and  that they had to rely on their own  independence. In the conversation between the  supervisors and the students, it  was discussed how it felt to have  increased responsibility in school  adoption. They reflected together on  the experience of having to follow  up on their own decisions and take  responsibility.  Professional  training and  relationships  with pupils The students described how, in  school adoption, they learned more  about what happens outside the  classroom and between lessons.  They described that they started  thinking about the pupils even  outside of their time at school. They  described it as educational and  necessary to be able to build a closer  relationship with the pupils. It was  challenging to deal with learners  who had special educational needs. It is important that responsibility  and needs are clarified in advance so  that the needs of the various pupils  are taken into account. The students’  experience with pupils with special  educational needs was challenging. The tutors and students discussed  follow-up of the pupils inside  and outside the classroom and  described a shift of focus from  subject teaching to their relationship  with the pupils. The tutors felt that  the students’ relationship with the  pupils became more real because of  school adoption.  Professional  training at the  intersection  between theory  and practice The students described that, in the  absence of a supervisor, they had  to find other support in their daily  work. They described how they  used theory to understand pupils’  actions and tackle challenges in the  classroom. The tutors described that school  adoption is a step in the right  direction for building a bridge  between theory and practice. They  further explained that, as teacher  education becomes more like real  life, the students get to know the  challenges alone. They discussed how combining  school adoption with a reflection  week afterwards was valuable. They  could discuss and reflect on the  experiences they had during their  school adoption.  Table 2: Overview of results from the focus group interviews and reflection sessions46 Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud  Professional training and its relation to responsibility and independence In the first theme, professional training  and its relation to responsibility and  independence, we see that the students often mentioned the responsibility  they experienced during school adoption. They experienced this responsi‐ bility as a realistic element of a teacher’s day, and they felt that this re‐ sponsibility extended not only to the classroom / teaching situation, but also  persisted outside the classroom. They felt this responsibility as part of the  experience of greater independence. The absence of a supervisor forced them  to rely on their own decisions. One of the students described the experience  as follows:  “Big difference when it comes to decisions. I had to make decisions myself,  couldn’t ask the supervisor. Had to make the choice and stand by it myself.  Understood more about the teacher’s decision-making skills.”  The students explained that standing alone in the classroom and having to  rely on themselves was a challenge they did not face in ordinary practice.  There, they were more dependent on the supervisor but, in school adoption,  they felt more freedom in the classroom when their supervisor was not  present. If this is seen in the context of the social space created in the relation‐ ship between the social and political conditions of the practice architectures  and the practice student, it illustrates how the supervisor promotes, but at  the same time inhibits, the student’s development in the social space of  the school. The supervisor’s presence promotes the student’s development  through guidance and follow-up, but at the same time this presence can be  an inhibiting factor in relation to the student’s development of independence.  The students stated that they make fewer of their own decisions when the  supervisor is present, whilst, when they are alone, they take responsibility  for their own actions and the pupils in a different way.  In the social space of the student’s practice, the role of the supervisor  is a key factor affecting the student’s professional development. In ordinary  practice, the supervisor is present and the relationship with the supervisor  is an important precursor for the actions and choices the student makes in  the classroom. In the model, one can contextualize how the student’s school  practice is promoted or hampered by the relationship with the supervisor.  The students reported a sense of security and support in having the super‐ visor present in the classroom, but at the same time they sensed a change in  their relationships with the pupils when the supervisor was not there: School Adoption 2.0 47  “The teacher is not there, it is liberating. We had good relationships with  the pupils, but they got better in School Adoption 2.0.”  The supervisor’s professional competence is an important prerequisite for  the student’s development of professional understanding (Hobson et al., 2009;  Norwegian Research Council, 2014) and an important factor in the student’s  development, where guidance should contribute to independence and devel‐ opment (Caspersen & Helland, 2015). The students experienced increased  independence in their professional practice through school adoption when  the supervisor was not present, whilst also feeling an increased sense of  responsibility:  “It is valuable to experience contact with – and responsibility for – the pupils  outside the teaching hours themselves. Big difference from the practice  period otherwise.”  The increased sense of responsibility the students expressed is related to the  second category, where they experienced an alteration in their relationships  with the pupils throughout school adoption.  Professional training and relationships with the pupils Concerning this theme, the students reported that school adoption has given  them the opportunity to build relationships with the pupils in a different  way from that experienced in ordinary practice. They have gained a deeper  understanding of what is happening outside the classroom, both before and  after school, and during breaks. The pupils became a greater focus for the  students, and they felt that they started to think about the pupils outside  teaching hours. In the dialogue between the supervisors and the students, it  emerged that they experienced it as a shift of focus, from subject content to  relationships with the pupils:  “A lot of learning in moving the main focus from subjects to relationships  with pupils. Spent more time with the pupils and thus got a different and  closer relationship with them.”  The students described here a change in the quality of contact with the pupils  when they were in sole charge of the classroom. The fact that the supervisor  was not present in the classroom changed the relationships and interactions  in the room. In the context of Kemmis and Grootenboer’s (2008) theory of  practice architectures, the different elements must be seen in relation to each 48 Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud  other. The pupils are part of both the physical and the social space; they are  part of the prerequisites and frameworks for teaching, while at the same time  also forming part of the social relations within the school context.  In the continuum between the practice student and the material-economic  and social-political conditions of the practice architectures, a social and  physical space is created. In these spaces, the role of the supervisor is an  important component and when the supervisor is removed, interaction in the  space changes. In the social space, the supervisor’s social relationship with  the students must be altered. The students expressed this as their having  more leeway for action and having a closer relationship with the pupils. In the  physical room, the absence of the supervisor created an increased focus on  the pupils, who became less concerned with the presence of the supervisor,  whilst the students were able to focus more fully on the pupils. One of the  students puts it this way:  “I expected that I would be more relaxed in the classroom without a tutor  and that was the case. I was looking forward to it. The teacher is not there,  [which is] liberating. We had good relationships with the pupils, but they  got better.”  The students experienced a positive relationship with the pupils, which they  described as coming closer to them. From another perspective, it may be  asked how this was experienced by the pupils. In teacher education, it is  important that the pupils are the central focus and that students develop  perspectives concerning their pupils, in line with their professional goals and  standards. The needs of, and outcomes for, pupils are the top priority for  teaching (Det Kongelige Kunnskapsdepartement, 2009). The teaching pro‐ fession’s ethical platform (Utdanningsforbundet, 2018) provides a basis for  teachers to exercise judgment, which is linked to the development of practice  through the teacher’s joint responsibility. Teacher education programs col‐ laborate with school staff to further develop the students’ knowledge, skills  and ethical judgment, both internally and in collaboration with educational  and research environments. It is important for the students to understand  that changes and actions have consequences, and that the best interests of  the pupils should always be the first priority. In the reflection session with  the supervisors and students following school adoption, they discussed this  specific point as one of the main challenges, especially for the most vulnera‐ ble students: School Adoption 2.0 49  “In particular, it would be interesting to become more acquainted with and  observe the pupils, [in order to] become a special education teacher.”  “Special pedagogy is difficult, and should have been introduced to students  [by persons] who know the individual pupils.”  The supervisor and student here expressed a concern about pupils who need  extra follow-up and how school adoption is experienced by these pupils. This  is a key element in the development of new practice models.  Professional training in the intersection between theory and practice This was the third theme that emerged. Students stated that, during school  adoption they used theory from the curriculum as support in situations where  they were challenged by pupils’ actions. The tutors also suggested that school  adoption can help to make teacher education and practice training closer  to real life for the students, and that such a week contributes to a closer  connection between what they experience in practice and what they read  about in theory. The counsellors described the pilot as an important step  toward what they called “building a bridge between theory and practice.”  One of the students described it like this:  “You see theory for a week, you stand alone, you have no one to ask, so you  are tested – you have to use theory as a support.”  In Kemmis and Grootenboer’s (2008) model of practice architectures, the  relationship with the supervisor and its support is part of the social space.  When the supervisor is removed as a factor in the social space, several factors  in the architecture change. The supervisor’s absence affects the cultural /  discursive conditions, and the framework of the semantic space changes.  Within the semantic space, the student can participate in discussions in‐ volving the supervisor, during the school practice. By means of academic  discussions during the school practice, students are given space to reflect on  the challenges they face. If there is a change of frames, there is a change in  the semantic space. When no supervisor or other teachers are present in that  space, the students find that they use theory to support the challenges that  arise. A student described it as follows:  “In pedagogy we learn about the pupil’s psychology, and when standing  alone with a challenging pupil, it helps to know and understand that the  pupil acts for a reason. It is not my fault or I that have done anything wrong.” 50 Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud    Figure 2: Students build bridges between practice architectures  This student described how educational theory can help to understand why  a pupil can be challenging. When the supervisor is not present, the student  cannot directly discuss an experience that has occurred in the classroom, and  the student here described how theory is then used as a support for under‐ standing and analyzing the situation. Students’ learning and development  are influenced by the prevailing practice architectures (Kemmis & Grooten‐ boer, 2008; Sjølie, 2017) and what is interesting here is that the students  see a connection between the architectures they experience in university  and school practice. In both the semantic and the social space, there will  be elements that promote or hinder a student’s development and learning.  What is interesting here is that the supervisor’s absence, a “disruption” in the  practice architectures, caused the student to construct a connection between  his own architectures, an independent bridge between theory and practice  (Figure 2).  Sjølie (2017) describes how student teachers move between different prac‐ tices at the university and in the school, and that they perceive these as  separate from one another. For example, several of the students in her study  experienced that teacher educators and school supervisors talked about each  other in ways that undermined the school or teacher education, respectively.  She further argues that teacher educators, students, and teachers in the school  need to discuss the importance of the concepts of theory and practice to a  greater extent, in order to create a common understanding, and that this, in  the next step, can support student teacher learning. This is also supported  by Lillejord and Børte (2017), who argue that teacher education institutions  and practice schools must increase their common understanding of what  constitutes good educational practice. From such common understandings School Adoption 2.0 51  of teacher education, the student can himself “build a bridge” and see the  connection between what is going on at university and at the practice school.  Conclusions and Implications Students are trained for professional careers as teachers. The practical train‐ ing component of teacher education is intended (in accordance with the  framework plan and national guidelines) to organize the training in such a  way that the students are prepared to work in the teaching profession. The  students who participated in the school adoption pilot gained experience  from this practice situation, and subsequently described their experiences.  Their experiences all fell into the three categories of findings presented  above. The question we posed in advance of this pilot was: How is practice  training experienced in School Adoption 2.0?  As described above, the students  experienced more responsibility and independence, a closer relationship with  the pupils and a closer connection between theory and practice, whilst men‐ tors and students raised questions about the care of vulnerable pupils.  The students described how the absence of a supervisor made them seek  theoretical perspectives for help and support. In the discussion about how  school adoption influenced the link between theory and practice, it was  interesting that the students connected the different architectures that ex‐ ist within teacher education. At the same time, the students expressed an  increased sense of responsibility and the need to make their own decisions.  They described how being alone and not having a supervisor present in the  classroom made them feel more responsible and demanded a greater degree  of decision-making ability and independence. This is something that the  new national guidelines emphasize in their recommendations for practical  training. At the same time in the national guidelines (Munthe & Engelien,  2017), there is also an increased focus on practice teaching, and the inter‐ action between university and school. The description in the guidelines of  the institution’s responsibilities states: “Teacher education is a professional  education that requires a focus on professionalism and development, but  also a focus on research-based and theory-based practice training. This re‐ quires closer collaboration between school and university, between theory  and practice”. This is in line with Lillejord and Børte (2017), who argue for  stronger collaboration, while Smith ‘s (2016) description of an increased focus  on the supervisor’s role and what it should be is relevant and interesting. The 52 Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud  students’ descriptions of participation in this pilot describe several positive  elements, in accordance with what is being argued here. At the same time,  the findings and analysis raise a question about the supervisor’s role. The  role of the supervisor and his / her competence become central since the  analysis shows how the supervisor’s presence or absence changes the prac‐ tice student’s practice architectures. This raises questions about supervisor  education and whether guidance is a profession within a profession, as Kari  Smith (2016) describes it. This is not an element that has been explored  through our pilot, but an element that has emerged and that, we argue,  requires more research and increased awareness.  Based on our exploration of the implementation of the pilot, we have some  interesting findings. The students’ experience of increased responsibility and  independence in a practice experience where the supervisor is not present  makes the supervisor’s role an interesting topic for further research. The  supervisor’s role, as the students described it, is an important factor for their  professional development, but at the same time they experienced it as an  impediment to further development, with a need to test themselves whilst  single-handed  in the classroom. In the organization of the practical training, it  is interesting to examine how the training can promote student independence  through structural change. The call in the national guidelines for increased  collaboration between school and university also raises a question about col‐ laboration between university staff and supervisors: how can an organization  create spaces for interaction in the relationship between teacher educators  at university and supervisors in school, which can also contribute to the  students’ professional development? These are questions that require more  research, but at the same time are important for developing the students’  practical training in teacher education.  Based on our findings from the students’ experiences, we cannot draw  any firm conclusions about how school adoption can create a better practice  for teacher education. What we can conclude is that the organization of  the new model provided new perspectives in relation to ordinary practice,  which contribute positively to the work of developing the practice of teacher  education at NTNU. School Adoption 2.0 53  Acknowledgements The authors thank Dr. Peter Gray for helping us write this article in English  and for giving us constructive and helpful feedback during the process.  Furthermore, we want to thank Per Ramberg for including us in the School  Adoption in Teacher Education  project (Janssen & Wiedenhorn, 2020) and  giving us this opportunity. Thank you both for contributing in discussions  and reflections during this project and in the process developing the pilot  School Adoption 2.0 . We are grateful for the opportunity to participate in this  international project.  References Caspersen, K. & Helland, G. (2015). Veiledning som praksis. Kommunikasjon,  relasjon, roller, observasjon, tilbakemelding, læring . Trondheim: VeiVis.  Crotty, M. (1998). The foundations of social research. Meaning and perspective in  the research process . London: Sage.  Darling-Hammond, L. (2006). Constructing 21st-century teacher education.  Journal of Teacher Education, 57 (3), 300–314, https://doi.org/10.1177/ 0022487105285962 .  Det Kongelige Kunnskapsdepartement (2009). St.meld.nr.11 (2008–2009).  Læreren. Lærerrollen og utdanningen (White Paper 11),  https://www. regjeringen.no/contentassets/dce0159e067d445aacc82c55e364ce83/no/pdfs /stm200820090011000dddpdfs.pdf .  Eraut, M. (2009). Transfer of knowledge between education and workplace  settings . In H. Daniels, H. Lauder & J. Porter (Eds.), Knowledge, values and  educational policy  (pp. 65–84). London: Routledge.  Eurostat (2017). Europe 2020 indicators – education, http://ec.europa.eu/ eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Europe_2020_indicators_ _educa tion .  Grimen, H. (2008). Profesjon og kunnskap. In A. Molander & L. I. Terum (Eds.),  Profesjonsstudier  (pp. 71–86). Oslo: Universitetsforlaget.  Grossman, P.; Hammerness, M. & McDonald, M. (2009). Redefining teaching,  re-imagining teacher education. Teachers and teaching: Theory and practice,  15(2), 273–289, https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13540600902875340 .  Hammerness, K. (2013). Examining features of teacher education in Norway .  Scandinavian Journal of Educational Research, 57 (4), 400–419, https://dx.doi. org/10.1080/00313831.2012.656285 . 54 Monika Merket & Elin Bø Morud  Hobson, A.; Ashby, P.; Malderez, A. & Tomlinson, P. (2009). Mentoring be‐ ginning teachers: What we know and what we don’t. Teaching and Teacher  Education , 25(1), 207–216, https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tate.2008.09.001 .  Janssen, M. & Wiedenhorn, T. (2020). Editorial: School adoption in teacher  education. Increasing pre-service teachers’ responsibility during practice . In  M. Janssen & T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education.  Increasing pre-service teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 9 –14 ). Mün‐ ster: Waxmann, https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Johnson, B.; Down, B.; Le Cornu, R.; Peters, J.; Sullivan, A.; Pearce, J. & Hunter,  J. (2014). Promoting early career teacher resilience: A framework for under‐ standing and acting. Teachers and Teaching, 20 (5), 530–546, https://dx.doi. org/10.1080/13540602.2014.937957 .  Kemmis, S. & Grootenboer, P. (2008). Situating praxis in practice: Practice ar‐ chitectures and the cultural, social and material conditions for practice. In S.  Kemmis & T. J. Smith (Eds.), Enabling praxis: Challenges for education  (pp. 37– 62). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers, https://doi.org/10.1163/9789087903275_004 .  Kunnskapsdepartement (2013). National framework for the five-year-integrat‐ ed teacher education programme 8–13, https://lovdata.no/dokument/SF/for skrift/2013-03-18-288?q=lektorutdanningen .  Kvernbekk, T. (2011). Filosofisk om teori og praksis. Bedre skole, 2011 (2), 20–25,  https://utdanningsforskning.no/artikler/filosofisk-om-teori-og-praksis/.  Lillejord, S. & Børte, K. (2017). Lærerutdanning som profesjonsutdanningforut‐ setning og prinsipper fra forskning. Et kunnskapsgrunnlag . Oslo: Kunnskaps‐ senter for utdanning.  Løvlie, L. (2016). Instrumentalismen og politisering av skolen. In O. A. Kvamme,  T. Kvernbekk, & T. Strand (Eds.), Pedagogiske fenomener. En innføring   (pp. 343–355). Oslo: Cappelen Damm Akademiske.  Mahon, K.; Francisco, S. & Kemmis, S. (Eds.) (2017). Exploring education and  professional practice. Through the lens of practice architectures . Singapore:  Springer, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-2219-7 .  Molander, A. & Terum, L. I. (Eds.) (2008), Profesjonsstudier . Oslo: Universitets‐ forlaget.  Munthe, E. & Engelien, K. L. (2017). Nasjonale retningslinjer for lektorutdan‐ ning for trinn 8–13 , https://www.uhr.no/_f/p1/i4d4335f1-1715-4f6e-ab440dca372d7488/lektorutdanning_8_13_vedtatt_13_11_2017.pdf .  Norwegian Research Council Norsk (2014). Lærerprofesjonalitet .  Postholm, M. B. (2010). Kvalitativ metode. En innføring med fokus på  fenomenologi, etnografi og kasusstudier  (2nd ed.). Oslo: Universitetsforlaget.  Regjeringen.no (2017). Europa 2020 – EUs vekststrategi,  https://www.regjeringen .no/no/tema/europapolitikk/europa-2020/id685988/. School Adoption 2.0 55  Sjølie, E. (2014). Pedagogy is just common sense. A case study of student teachers’  academic learning practices . Trondheim: NTNU trykk.  Sjølie, E. (2017). Learning educational theory in teacher education. In K. Mahon,  S. Francisco & S. Kemmis (Eds.), Exploring education and professional practice.   Through the lens of practice architectures (pp. 49–61). Singapore: Springer,  https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-2219-7_3 .  Skagen, K. (2016). Kunnskapstyper og hegemonisk veiledningsstrategi i norsk  veiledningsdiskurs. In A.-L. Østern & G. Engvik (Eds.), Veiledningspraksiser i  bevegelse . Skole, utdanning og kulturliv  (pp. 59–80). Bergen: Fagbokforlaget.  Smith, K. (2016). Mentorer – skolebaserte lærerutdannere: Ansvar og krav.  In A.-L. Østern & G. Engvik (Eds.), Veiledningspraksiser i bevegelse. Skole,  utdanning og kulturliv  (pp. 197–210). Bergen: Fagbokforlaget.  Stake, R. E. (1995). The art of case study research . London: Sage.  Szklarski, A. (2015). Fenomenologi. In A. Fejes & R. Thornberg (Eds.), Handbok  i kvalitativ analys  (pp. 131–147). Stockholm: Liber ABB.  Utdanningsforbundet (2018). Lærerprofesjonens etiske platform,  https://www.ut danningsforbundet.no/larerhverdagen/profesjonsetikk/om-profesjonsetikk/ larerprofesjonens-etiske-plattform/.  Østern, A.-L. & Engvik, G. (Eds.) (2016). Veiledningspraksiser i bevegelse. Skole,  utdanning og kulturliv . Bergen: Fagbokforlaget. The Theory of Practice Architectures  and the Core Practice Approach as  Theoretical Perspectives on School Adoption  An Example from the University of Education Weingarten  Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  Summary So far, school adoption in teacher education has mainly been discussed in the  contexts of realistic teacher education and third space approaches. We pro‐ pose to add the theory of practice architecture and the core practice approach  to these considerations. Following the introduction of these two theoretical  frameworks and the presentation of the integrated term practicum and school  adoption as two distinct forms of partnerships at the University of Education  Weingarten, we present the view that the perception and enactment of core  practices in these two practicums vary due to their different social spaces.  Introduction and Background At the University of Education Weingarten, planning and conceptualizing  the first school adoption started in 2014 after a meeting with a group of the  Norwegian University of Science and Technology (Haugaløkken & Ramberg,  2005; Ramberg & Haugaløkken, 2019) at the University of Helsinki 1, and a  visit to the school adoption pilot project at the Europa-Universität Flensburg  (Bach, 2017). With permission from school authorities and the approval of  school committees our 2 first school adoption was realized in December 2015.  Initially the project was carried out alternately at two regional primary  1 During one of the first meetings of the “Teacher Education: Quality, Integration  and Learning” network: https://www.ntnu.edu/ilu/tequila . 2 A note on language, especially for the German readers to whom the use of personal  pronouns in academic writing might be unfamiliar: The project described in this  chapter is carried out by the two authors. Therefore, we use the pronoun “we” to  refer to ourselves and to make our agency transparent (APA, 2020).58 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  schools, both of which were proposed by the local school authorities. Today,  the project is located at one of these two. It is a local collaboration (Greany,  2015), which must be approved once a year by the school authorities, at  our request, and by the school committees, at the request of the school  management (Janssen & Wiedenhorn, 2019).  So far, school adoption in teacher education (SATE) as an innovative  guided form of practicum in teacher education has mainly been discussed in  the contexts of realistic teacher education  and third space  approaches (Bach,  2019; Lund, 2020). In this chapter, we propose to add two other perspectives  to these theoretical foundations: the theory of practice architectures and the  core practice approach. A glimpse into SATE at the University of Education  Weingarten has been given above. In the following, after providing a brief  account of the three theoretical approaches of partnership models in teacher  education, the theory of practice architectures, and core practices (Theoret‐ ical Frameworks), we describe in detail SATE and the long-term internship in  which it is integrated (School Adoption in the Integrated Term Practicum).  Based on this, we elaborate our view that the perception and enactment  of core practices in these two partnership arrangements vary due to their  different social spaces (Discussion). Finally, we provide a brief insight into  an ongoing research project in which we use ethnographic video material  and interviews to analyze, in more detail, the professionalization of student  teachers who participated in SATE (Outlook).  Theoretical Frameworks In the following section we briefly introduce our understanding of partner‐ ship and the two theoretical lenses used. These perspectives do not form  the conceptual basis of the respective arrangements themselves but serve as  analytical instruments only.  Partnership We define a partnership in initial teacher education as a structural arrange‐ ment between higher education teacher education institutions (as a whole or  as individual units) and local community stakeholders (institutions such as  schools, welfare and care services, parents etc.) which is organized around a  shared understanding of the individual professionalization of student teach‐ ers as well as of teaching and schooling (Schatzki, 2001; Smith, 2016). In The Theory of Practice Architectures and the Core Practice Approach 59  such an arrangement, all involved stakeholders are a distinctive site of, and  for, professional learning of student teachers (Furlong, McNamara, Campbell,  Howson & Lewis, 2008), and both sites contribute either commonly or com‐ plementarily to student teachers’ professional development.  A partnership simultaneously depends on an existing and a prospective,  often teleological, “meaning-generating connective force” (Knorr Cetina,  2001, p. 196) which is the basis for both the unfolding of certain purposeful  practices of initial teacher education (Husbands, 2015; Kemmis, Heikkinen,  Fransson, Aspfors & Edwards-Groves, 2014) and for the “incremental change”  (Handcomb, Gu & Varley, 2014, p. 4) of the arrangements which begins when  initially shared understandings and goals develop and change in the course  of the partnership (Bartholomew & Sandholtz, 2009).  Theory of practice architectures In a nutshell, the theory of practice architectures (Kemmis 2009; Kemmis et  al., 2014) and the three spaces it comprises – semantic, physical space-time,  and social space – can be used to describe processes of socialization into  professions. Kemmis and Grootenboer (2008, p. 38) write:  “We become speakers of shared languages which allow us to understand  ourselves, others and the world around us (through our sayings). We be‐ come part of shared practices and activities through which our lives are  constituted (through our doings). And we become part of groups through  which we form identities and take roles in relation to others [ . . . ] and find  ourselves included and excluded (through our relatings).”  This makes it particularly interesting for teacher education as these three  spaces can be used to describe and to analyze partnership arrangements:  Which sayings, which doings and which relatings are enabled or constrained  by the various partnerships and their respective conditions? How do these  spaces in a certain partnership intersect and interact?  It is these conditions and arrangements that Kemmis et al. (2014) refer  to as practice architectures . These prefigure what people inside the spaces  can do and say, who they can relate to and how they can relate to each  other: Those involved and participating in such “practices encounter one  another intersubjectively in semantic space, in physical space-time and in  social space” (Edwards-Groves & Grootenboer, 2015, p. 153) and “form places”  (ibid.) of, and for, professionalization. 60 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  It is this assumption that distinguishes Kemmis’ work from Lave &  Wenger’s Community of Practice  approach. While the latter (1991) assumed  that it is the learning that is shaped by the community of practice in which it  is situated, the former goes a step further, as he assumes that it is not only the  learning but the “whole work” (Kemmis, 2009, p. 34), i.e., student teachers’  processes of becoming professional teachers, which is preconditioned and  shaped by the structures, conditions, history, and patterns of the sites in  which it is located. Edwards-Groves and Grootenboer (2015, p. 153) describe  it as follows:  “People’s capacities, commitments and dispositions are made visible in the  situated ness and happening ness of these practices as they are enacted (at the  time) by saying and doing particular things, and by relating to others and  the world in particular ways. Given this, sayings, doings and relatings form  resources for participation in practices, since participating in practices in  particular ways in particular sites simultaneously always produces, repro‐ duces and transforms participants’ dispositions, practices and the sites in  which they are practicing.”  Core practices Darling-Hammond (2006) identifies clinical practice in school, its supervision  and the relations between courses, course work in university and clinical  practice as “pedagogical cornerstones” (2006, p. 7) of teacher education pro‐ grams. In brief, these cornerstones imply that teacher educators in their  programs must attend to practical and theoretical aspects of teaching and  must have a mentoring concept that enables, and systematically supports,  student teachers in enacting, mastering, and reflecting core competencies of  the teaching profession. High-leverage or core practices  are those competen‐ cies which occur frequently in different teaching situations across different  instructional approaches and subjects (McDonald, Kazemi & Schneider-Ka‐ vanagh, 2013). Thus, they can be regarded as the foundation of teaching. Core  practices show what we know about teaching in school and about research  on teaching: They can improve pupils’ learning and can be learned by novice  teachers (Grossman, Hammerness & McDonald, 2009). Such core practices  include, for example, instructional methods (oral or written), classroom man‐ agement techniques, or assessment for learning strategies. Understood in this  way, core practices are highly demanding for both teacher educators and  student teachers as they have a significant knowledge base and require skilled The Theory of Practice Architectures and the Core Practice Approach 61  practice. They also require higher education practice arrangements that allow  the demands of core practices to be addressed.  Implications for the theoretical considerations of school adoption School adoption has mainly been discussed with regards to realistic teacher  education (see below) and third space approaches (Bach, 2019). These latter  seem to focus on finding ways to change existing structures. For teacher edu‐ cation, for example, Zeichner uses it to discuss “the creation of hybrid spaces  in preservice teacher education programs that bring together school and uni‐ versity-based teacher educators, and practitioner and academic knowledge,  in new ways to enhance the learning of prospective teachers” (2010, p. 92).  SATE obviously is such a new structure in teacher education. However, we  would like to focus less on the creation of such spaces and more on what can  and does happen in them. For that, the theory of practice architectures seems  to offer a promising perspective.  So far, authors (Bach, 2019; Ramberg & Haugaløkken, 2012; Haugaløkken  & Ramberg, 2005) have regarded school adoption as a form of “realistic  teacher education” (Korthagen, Kessels, Koster, Lagerwerg & Wubbels, 2001).  This model primarily addresses a teacher’s individual wishes, feelings and  thoughts (Korthagen & Vasalos, 2010, p. 533) in specific situations. Theoreti‐ cal aspects follow and are introduced by teacher educators at “the appropriate  moment” (Grossman, Hammerness & McDonald, 2009, p. 277) and are “tai‐ lored to the specific needs and concerns of the practitioner and the situation  under reflection” (Korthagen & Vasalos, 2010, p. 533). Korthagen and Kessels  (1999, p. 7) refer to this as “phronesis” .  We propose to add the core practice approach to this theoretical founda‐ tion because a concept such as SATE allows a broader perspective than just  academic knowledge and (cognitive) reflection 3, i.e., a focus on the enactment  of the above mentioned (and other) high-leverage practices (i.e. skills and  techniques), including the exploration of and experiment with these. With  Grossman, Hammerness and McDonald (2009), we assume that while student  teachers  3 In the quoted realistic teacher education approach, reflection is regarded as a  cognitive ability.62 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  “ . . . experiment with enacting such practices, they also are developing a  professional identity built around their role as a teacher – the practices  help elaborate their understanding of what it means to act as a teacher (cf.  Ronfeldt, 2008). Professional knowledge and identity are thus woven around  the practices of teaching” (p. 278).  Instead of individual wishes, feelings and thoughts, the practices of teaching  and schooling become the point of departure for reflection and professional  development.  School Adoption in the Integrated Term Practicum The SATE project at the University of Education Weingarten consists of  three elements: the integrated term practicum, the adoption week, and the  teachers’ continuing professional development activities during this week.  Although this last part is a constitutive element of the project because it  offers the participating teachers the unique opportunity for continuing pro‐ fessional development together as a team without cancelled lessons for their  pupils, it is not described in this chapter. 4 Instead, the first two elements are  described in detail (Figure 1).  Course of the integrated term practicum For student teachers at universities of education in the state of Baden-Würt‐ temberg an integrated term practicum (from now on, ITP) at a local school  is obligatory. 5 Partnership schools involved in the ITP are normal public  schools; they are neither governed (Darling-Hammond, 2017) nor led by the  universities of education. Involved teachers are not specifically selected nor  trained for the work with student teachers. 6  For student teachers for Primary Schools (ISCED 1) 7 the ITP is part of  the Bachelor Program, for student teachers for Lower Secondary Schools  4 The activities are based on the current school development objectives of the school  and agreed with the responsible school authorities. 5 The German term is “Integriertes Semesterpraktikum”. 6 However, individual universities, faculties or subjects do offer (training) courses  for involved teachers. 7 The International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED 2011) is a frame‐ work for organizing education programs and qualifications by applying uniform  definitions to facilitate comparisons of education systems across countries.The Theory of Practice Architectures and the Core Practice Approach 63  Integrated term  p racticumAdoption weekIntegrated term  p racticum – student teachers adopt the school while the regular teachers engage  in professional development activities outside of the school  – no teaching visits, no assessment of student teachers  – project leaders  present at the school, but remain in the background  – seminars in educational science in the afternoon in school  – guided teaching, mentoring, teaching visits and assessment of student  teachers by school-based mentors and university mentors  – weekly seminars in subject didactics, educational science & educational  psychology at the university  – preparation & follow-up of adoption week, evaluation  Figure 1: Course & characteristics of school adoption at the University of Education  Weingarten  (ISCED 2) it is part of the Master Program. The ITP is a “large-scale col‐ laboration” (Greany, 2015, p. 16) as the University of Education Weingarten  has over a hundred local schools to which student teachers are allocated by a  specialized university practicum office that coordinates all formal curricular  and practical aspects, the needs of schools, the university, and the student  teachers. Student teachers have to register centrally online about six months  in advance and are assigned to a school by the practicum office.  The ITP lasts approximately one term, i.e. 14 to 16 weeks. It starts with an  introductory phase at school only, followed by the main practicum both in  school and university. For the latter, the curriculum prescribes that student  teachers are at school for 15 hours per week. But, in most cases, the time  student teachers spend at school exceeds this prescribed sum.  For the introductory phase, the student teachers are at school every  day, for two weeks. They meet their school-based mentors (i.e. the regular  schoolteachers) and other pedagogical staff, the pupils, and their fellow stu‐ dent teachers. They can join teachers in different classes, observe and support  them in their teaching, interact with pupils, and so on. University mentors are  not involved during this phase.  During the main phase, student teachers are at school every day excluding  Thursdays. On that day they have to attend specific accompanying seminars 64 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  at university, which conceptually are closely related to the student teachers’  teaching in their ITP class(es). In these seminars, student teachers learn, for  example, how to plan lessons and to write lesson plans using didactical,  methodical, and psychological knowledge. When in school, student teachers  follow one or more teachers in class. Gradually, they start teaching classes  while the teacher is present in the classroom, from single phases of a lesson to  full lessons in the subjects studied by student teachers at university. During  this main phase, the visits to classes, described below, take place.  Student teachers study in four areas: two subjects and their didactics,  educational science and educational psychology. For the ITP part in school,  they are allocated according to the subjects they study, for example, mathe‐ matics and art. During this main phase, student teachers are supervised (or  mentored) by the class teachers and two university mentors, from two of their  four different study areas. Each of the university mentors makes at least two  visits to classes which are taught by the student teachers. For these visits,  student teachers have to write lesson plans in which they describe in detail  the learning abilities of the pupils, ground their teaching objectives both in  their diagnosis and in the curriculum, and justify their teaching contents  and methodic decisions didactically. All in all, these lesson plans serve the  justification and legitimation of teaching and have a strong prescriptive  character. Overall, the focus for feedback and assessment in these teaching  visits is on how far student teachers succeed in initiating and maintaining  pupils’ learning, in justifying their methodic and didactical decisions for the  lesson, and in their subsequent reflections. Aspects of classroom management  are also part of the feedback and assessment of these single lessons. As indi‐ cated, all mentors not only give feedback and advice but also assess student  teachers. They can pass or fail single teaching visits as well as the entire ITP.  Such a decision is taken jointly by the university and school mentors.  Course of school adoption At the University of Education Weingarten, school adoption is integrated into  the above described ITP in the Primary School Teacher Bachelor Program.  This integration addresses the course of the project, its curricular foundation,  and the admission of the student teachers.  There are two levels of admission: A central one outside and an internal  one inside the project. As described above, student teachers register centrally  for the ITP and indicate that they wish to participate in the SATE project. The Theory of Practice Architectures and the Core Practice Approach 65  Neither we nor any of the other stakeholders involved makes a selection  before the project, because, in our opinion, there are no reliable criteria for  this at this stage. However, participation and performance in the ITP serves  the purpose of selecting student teachers: In case of insufficient performance  and / or other doubts as to suitability for adoption week, student teachers  are refused participation in the adoption week. In these cases, in addition  to the joint assessment of the school and university mentors during the  teaching visits, the assessment of the school mentors, i.e., the teachers, is  of decisive importance because in their daily work with the student teachers  they are close to their professional work and personal interaction with the  pupils. Until now, in every project round, it has happened that individual  student teachers were not permitted to take part in the adoption week. 8 9  In this sense, school adoption at the University of Education Weingarten is  not an unguided internship (Zeichner, 2010) but one that, following a closely  monitored ITP, offers the possibility of less close monitoring for a week and  a subsequent common processing and reflection of this week.  Before we describe the course of school adoption, we briefly outline  its core, tasks, and objectives. As the core of the adoption project, student  teachers take over  tasks (see below) of in-service teachers for five school days,  while these teachers participate in an external professional development  course outside the school. This week is called adoption week .  Since the SATE project is embedded in the ITP, its goals and competencies  are also project goals in a broader sense. The objectives of the study areas  involved in the ITP differ according to the subjects’ curriculums. Specific  SATE goals refer mainly to the adoption week itself. But because this week  builds on the ITP, these are not entirely independent of each other. While,  for example, lesson planning in the ITP focuses on one lesson, its methodic  and didactical decisions, aspects of classroom management and reflection,  these competencies can also be used for the one-week lesson planning of  the adoption week. However, other aspects of schooling and teaching are  added to this planning, and secondly, this planning is less detailed, but must  rather show the central theme of the individual subjects the student teachers  teach.  8 Passing the ITP is not tied to participation in the adoption week. 9 Student teachers can also decide for themselves not to participate in the adoption  week. In each year student teachers have decided to do so.66 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  The overall SATE goal is to give student teachers a more complete picture  of their future professional field than other forms of practicums do by in‐ volving them not only in more tasks of teachers but by doing so more deeply  in the sense that they become more responsible in, and for, the social and  organizational processes of teaching in school. Illustrated with a very simple  example, our SATE students not only have to plan and to teach more lessons,  but also connected and consecutive ones (and not isolated ones as in the ITP).  If, for example, they do not succeed in teaching the necessary content for the  following lesson in the preceding one, this following lesson cannot take place  as planned. Our student teachers must respond to this. If they have an issue  with a pupil, they have to solve the situation themselves. Or they work with  the school’s social workers in preparation for and during the adoption week,  if the behavior of an individual pupil requires it.  For the adoption week, student teachers plan and prepare their lessons.  They write a schedule in which they must state in key words what they  will teach, when, and where during the week; which teaching and learning  goals they pursue and the grounding of these in the syllabus, and which  didactic-methodical principles will be applied. This plan must also include  organizational matters, e.g., who opens the school and when in the morning,  who supervises breaks, etc. These plans must be submitted to us as project  leaders and to the school authorities on their request.  Usually in week eleven or twelve of the ITP, adoption week starts on  a Monday morning with a symbolic handover of the school to the student  teachers. During this week, student teachers are unobserved in school and  classes. They plan and teach approximately 25 lessons. As still common in  Baden-Württemberg, they teach subjects they do not study. 10 Additionally  they have to organize and carry out playground duty, the monitoring of  pupils when they arrive and leave school, and must handle diverse situations  and issues with pupils, etc. – all tasks which are usually done by the teachers.  Student teachers don’t have to attend lectures and seminars at university  during this week. Adoption week ends on Friday with a meeting between  the school head, the student teachers, the project leaders, and staff from the  local and regional school authorities.  10 This is still common at primary schools in the state of Baden-Württemberg: Teach‐ ers are class teachers and as such they also teach subjects they haven’t studied.The Theory of Practice Architectures and the Core Practice Approach 67  As project managers and lecturers of the student teachers we are contin‐ uously present at the school, i.e., all day from before the first lesson until  after the seminar with the student teachers in the afternoon (see below).  During the school day, we keep ourselves in the background and separate  from student teachers and pupils, i.e., we do not enter the classrooms, the  playground, nor the teachers’ room etc. We only do so when the student  teachers ask us to. During this week, we usually have three seminars with the  participating student teachers in school when the pupils have left. In these,  we work dialogically. We start with those issues the student teachers bring in,  and think didactically together (Breidenstein, 2008) about what has happened  in class, and how to deal with challenges.  After the adoption week, the regular ITP continues. In school this contin‐ uation has proved to be very important because it gives the student teachers  time to hand over the classes to the regular teachers. And student teachers  appreciate it when they can finish what they have begun during the adoption  week.  Discussion We regard our SATE concept as an example for an incremental change  (see p. 59 ), i.e., as a progression of the ITP. As such, both arrangements  have similarities, but also differences due to which both are regarded as  two different forms of partnerships: Although the non-university partners  have important functions and decision-making rights, it is the university  that ensures “the overall coherence of student experience” (Smith, Brisard  & Menter, 2006, p. 161) based on its teacher education curriculum. In this  sense both partnerships are led by the university. In both internships, student  teachers have to create and to maintain a productive teaching and learning  environment, i.e., they have to provoke and respond to pupils’ reactions and  thinking (Schneider Kavanagh, Shahan & Morrison, 2017). But the student  teachers’ enactment of their competencies to do so, i.e., how they relate  and talk to pupils, what they do with them, differs in both arrangements  due to the presence or absence of the regular teacher during the ITP or the  adoption week. In other words, both arrangements differ in their respective  social space, which has an effect on the student teachers’ opportunities for  professionalization, 68 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  1. as adoption week brings about an extension of the physical space for the  student teachers and the number of tasks they take on,  2. as it changes the student teachers’ participation and with it their role in  the practicum and,  3. as the perception of the student teachers teaching activities change,  both on the part of the pupils and on the part of the student teachers  themselves.  While the first aspect has already been described above, we elaborate the  second and third one in the remainder of this chapter. Regarding the student  teachers’ participation: Although student teachers during the ITP attend  teacher conferences, parent meetings, and the like, their participation in  discussions and decisions is limited. If, for example, during the ITP, a pupil  gets injured when playing football during a break, or has an urgent problem,  e.g., in the family, or an argument with classmates, it is the regular teacher  who takes care of it because she is present. She initiates the necessary steps  and measures, e.g., disciplines pupils, informs parents, or the school’s social  worker. Student teachers might observe the teacher in doing so, might gain  insights, but they remain observers because the teacher leads the conversa‐ tions, takes decisions, initiates and carries out the resulting activities, and  is thus responsible for the (pedagogical) work. The student teachers remain  excluded from this work: They don’t have to talk to one of the mentioned  stakeholders, don’t have to establish a professional relationship with them,  don’t have to take decisions, and don’t have to take any professional action  with a consequence. They are not involved in the pedagogical situation itself  and do not participate in it. 11  With regards to the enactment of teaching competencies and their percep‐ tion, an incremental change based on the presence or absence of the regular  teachers can be described: During the ITP, student teachers report less about  challenges but more about successful teaching. From their point of view, their  11 Usually, in teacher education theory and didactics, it is argued that reflection  requires a distance. That distance, however, is different from the one just de‐ scribed: In professional theory, teachers take a distance from actions in which  they have been involved in and from decisions they themselves have taken. As  described, the student teachers are not involved in such actions and decisions, i.e.  the actual pedagogical situation. So usually, in essence, student teachers reflect  their observation of a pedagogical situation and not their own pedagogical work.The Theory of Practice Architectures and the Core Practice Approach 69  instructions and classroom management work well and pupils behave and  learn. During adoption week, however, the situation the student teachers  have become acquainted with during their ITP becomes unfamiliar in many  ways from the first day of the teachers’ absence, be it due to organizational  matters which now they have to deal with, be it due to pupils who now  behave differently.  That the student teachers do not report challenges during their ITP might  be because they instructed and managed classes well. But it might also be  because they do not encounter any, because the regular teacher is physically  present. By her presence, the teacher lends her authority, i.e., her solidarity  and power to the student teachers. Their instructions are mediated to the  pupils by the regular teachers’ presence. In this direction, her presence  strengthens the position of the student teachers as it affects the pupils’  practices: Pupils follow the student teachers (also) because they know what  their regular teacher expects of them. And because they know that they  cannot violate her expectations (which are ultimately rules) without being  sanctioned. It is in this sense that the pupils know their job (Breidenstein,  2019, Breidenstein, 2006) and contribute constitutive parts to the course and  success of the lessons of the student teachers and their overall practicum.  Ultimately, this might give the student teachers a deceptive picture of their  own abilities, skills, and competencies as they experience themselves as more  capable and competent than they might actually be. And this might give  them a deceptive picture of teaching too. This way also, the mentors of the  university can get a wrong picture of the competencies of their student teach‐ ers, because it remains hypothetical how the student teachers’ classes would  have gone had the regular schoolteacher not been present. On the other  hand, it is also questionable how the student teachers would have taught  at all if the university mentors had not been present in a teaching visit 12:  Student teachers know that they are assessed by their mentors. Therefore,  they teach in such a way that they meet the criteria for class visits to pass  their practicum. Since these criteria are checked by the mentors present, the  student teachers address not only the pupils but also the mentors in their  teaching. In terms of the theory of practice architectures, this refers to the  material-economic and the social-political dimension.  12 This is one of the questions that we address in the research project briefly outlined  at the end of this chapter (Outlook).70 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  The absence of the regular teacher during school adoption changes the  described interplay, the pupils’ practices, the intersubjective spaces and the  practice architectures as a whole – including the student teachers’ enactment  of competencies. They struggle to adjust their language, their teaching ac‐ tivities, and their relationships with the pupils in order to re-organize their  classroom management. In doing so, they encounter challenges and take  work-related decisions, and actually change their work, their enactment of  practices experimentally in short notice during the adoption week. They  develop adaptive expertise. In contrast to the realistic teacher education  approach, the student teachers are primarily concerned with classroom man‐ agement and instructional techniques (i.e., different core practices) and the  discussion and reflection of their ideals, wishes and personal needs revolve  around these professional practices of teaching – and not vice versa. In  this sense, the individual student teacher is confronted with herself as a  developing professional who has to take decisions related to her teaching.  Outlook During the last adoption week in December 2019, student teachers filmed  their teaching using wearable camera glasses (Affolter, Wiedenhorn, Janssen  & Angehrn, 2020; Janssen & Wiedenhorn, 2019). This data has been supple‐ mented by interviews with these students (Wiedenhorn, Janssen & KellerSchneider, 2021). The data will be analyzed both independently and trian‐ gulated. With this unique data material, new insights into student teachers’  professionalization processes can be gained and new possibilities for teacher  education didactics and research opened up.  References Affolter, B.; Wiedenhorn, T.; Janssen, M. & Angehrn, A. (i. E.). Mediengestützte  Selbstreflexion und Beratung in eigenverantworteten Praxisphasen im Pro‐ jekt “SMS-Studierende machen Schule!”. In T. F. Kreuzer & S. Albers (Eds.),  Selbstreflexion . (pp. 93–109). Hohengehren: Schneider Verlag.  American Psychological Association (APA) (Ed.) (2020). Publication manual of  the American Psychological Association  (7thed.). Washington, D.C.: American  Psychological Association.  Bach, A. (2017). Partnerschaftsmodelle in der Lehrerinnenund Lehrerbildung.  Das Flensburger Modell “Schuladoption”. In U. Fraefel & A. Seel (Eds.), The Theory of Practice Architectures and the Core Practice Approach 71  Konzeptionelle Perspektiven Schulpraktischer Studien. Partnerschaftsmodelle –  Praktikumskonzepte – Begleitformate  (pp. 43–56) . Münster: Waxmann.  Bach, A. (2019). School adoption by school-university partnerships – an ex‐ ample from Germany. Journal of Education for Teaching: International re‐ search and pedagogy, 45 (3), 306–321, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09589236.2019. 1599510 .  Bartholomew, S. S. & Sandholtz, J. H. (2009). Competing views of teaching  in a school – university partnership. Teaching and Teacher Education: An  International Journal of Research and Studies, 25 (1), 155–165, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.tate.2008.07.001 .  Breidenstein, G. (2006). Teilnahme am Unterricht. Ethnographische Studien zum  Schülerjob . Wiesbaden: VS Verlag für Sozialwissenschaften.  Breidenstein, G. (2008). Allgemeine Didaktik und praxeologische Unterrichts‐ forschung. Zeitschrift für Erziehungswissenschaft, 10 (9), 201–215, https://doi. org/10.1007/978-3-531-91775-7_14 .  Breidenstein, G. (2019). Schülerinnen und Schüler. In M. Harring, C. Rohlfs &  M. Gläser-Zikuda (Eds.), Handbuch Schulpädagogik  (pp. 317–327) . Münster:  Waxmann.  Darling-Hammond, L. (2006). Constructing 21st-century teacher education.  Journal of Teacher Education, 57 (3), 300–314, http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/ 0022487105285962 .  Darling-Hammond, L. (2017). Teacher education around the world: What can  we learn from international practice? European Journal of Teacher Education,  40(3), 291–309, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02619768.2017.1315399 .  Edwards-Groves, C. & Grootenboer, P. (2015). Praxis and the theory of prac‐ tice architectures: Resources for re-envisioning English education. Australian  Journal of Language and Literacy , 38 (3), 150–161.  Furlong, J.; McNamara, O.; Campbell, A.; Howson, J. & Lewis, S. (2008). Part‐ nership, policy and politics: Initial teacher education in England under New  Labour. Teachers and Teaching , 14(4), 307–318, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/ 13540600802037728 .  Greany, T. & Brown, C. (2015). Partnerships between teaching schools and uni‐ versities: Research report . London., Institute of Education, University College  London.  Grossman, P., Hammerness, K. & McDonald, M. (2009). Redefining teaching,  re-imagining teacher education. Teachers and Teaching: theory and practice,  15(2), 273–289, https://doi.org/10.1080/13540600902875340 .  Handscomb, G.; Gu, Q.; Varley, M.; (2014). School-university partnerships: Fulfill‐ ing the potential. Literature review . London Centre for Leadership in Learning,  UCL Institute of Education: London, UK, https://discovery.ucl.ac.uk/id/eprint /10065168/. 72 Markus Janssen & Thomas Wiedenhorn  Haugaløkken, O. V. & Ramberg, P. (2005). School adoption as a form of teaching  practice in initial teacher education . Program for teacher education. Norwe‐ gian University of Science and Technology (NTNU).  Husbands, C. (2015). What are teaching schools for? Management in Education,  29 (1) 31–34.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/0892020614535798 .  Janssen, M. & Wiedenhorn, T. (2019). Studierende machen Schule. Praktikum  ohne Lehrkräfte. Bildung und Wissenschaft (4) , 27, https://www.gew-bw.de/ index.php?eID=dumpFile&t=f&f=76791&token=e6ec2534d7f3d9546e256c719 79eae6fe60a6d36&sdownload=&n=bundw-04-19.pdf .  Kemmis, S. (2009). Understanding professional practice: A synoptic framework.  In B. Green (Ed.), Understanding and researching professional practice  (pp. 19– 38). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers, https://doi.org/10.1163/9789087907327_003 .  Kemmis, S. & Grootenboer, P. (2008). Situating praxis in practice: Practice ar‐ chitectures and the cultural, social and material conditions for practice. In S.  Kemmis & T.J. Smith (Eds.), Enabling praxis: Challenges for education  (pp. 37– 62). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers, https://doi.org/10.1163/9789087903275_004 .  Kemmis, S.; Heikkinen, H.; Fransson, G.; Aspfors, J. & Edwards-Groves, C.  (2014). Mentoring of new teachers as a contested practice: Supervision, sup‐ port and collaborative self-development. Teaching  and Teacher Education, 43 ,  154–164, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tate.2014.07.001 .  Kemmis, S.; Wilkinson, J.; Edwards-Groves, C.; Hardy, I.; Grootenboer, P.  & Bristol, L. (2014). Changing practices, changing education . Singapore:  Springer, https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-981-4560-47-4 .  Knorr Cetina, K. (2001). Objectual practice. In T. R. Schatzki, K. Knorr Cetina &  E. von Savigny (Eds.), The practice turn in contemporary theory  (pp. 184–197).  London: Routledge.  Korthagen, F. A. J. & Kessels, J. (1999). Linking theory and practice: Changing  the pedagogy of teacher education. Educational Researcher, 28 (4), 4–17, http:// dx.doi.org//10.3102/0013189X028004004 .  Korthagen, F. A. J.; Kessels, J.; Koster, B.; Lagerwerf, B. & Wubbels, T. (Eds.)  (2001). Linking practice  and theory: The pedagogy of realistic teacher education .  London: Lawrence Erlbaum, http://dx.doi.org/10.4324/9781410600523 .  Korthagen, F. A. J. & Vasalos, A. (2010). Going to the core: Deepening reflection  by connecting the person to the profession. In N. Lyons (Ed.), Handbook of  reflection and reflective inquiry: Mapping a way of knowing for professional  reflective inquiry  (pp. 529–552). New York: Springer, http://dx.doi.org/10.1007 /978-0-387-85744-2_27 .  Lave, J. & Wenger, E. (1991). Situated learning. Legitimate peripheral par‐ ticipation.  Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1017/CBO9780511815355. The Theory of Practice Architectures and the Core Practice Approach 73  Lund, A. (2020). Preface: The adopted school as a transformative space. In M.  Janssen & T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increas‐ ing pre-service teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 15 –20 ). Münster:  Waxmann, https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  McDonald, M.; Kazemi, E. & Schneider-Kavanagh, S. (2013). Core practices and  pedagogies of teacher education: A call for a common language and collective  activity. Journal of Teacher Education, 64 (5), 378–386, https://doi.org/10.1177/ 0022487113493807 .  Ramberg, P. & Haugaløkken, O. (2012 ). The use of partnership models in teacher  education. Towards a more realistic approach?  (Report). Norwegian University  of Science and Technology.  Ramberg, P. & Haugaløkken, O. (2019). School adoption in teacher education  at NTNU. In P. Gray & P. Ramberg (Eds.), Building teacher education in MidNorway, 1998–2018  (pp. 89–97.). NTNU: Trondheim.  Schatzki, T. (2001). Introduction. Practice Theory. In T. R. Schatzki, K. Knorr  Cetina & E. von Savigny (Eds.), The practice turn in contemporary theory   (pp. 10–23). London: Routledge.  Schneider Kavanagh, S.; Shahan, E. & Morrison, D. (2017). Core practices  of teaching: A primer,  http://tfajaxelementary.weebly.com/uploads/6/5/7/8/ 6578913/core_practice_primer.pdf .  Smith, I.; Brisard, E. & Menter, I. (2006). Models of partnership developments  in initial teacher education in the four components of the United Kingdom:  Recent trends and current challenges, Journal of Education for Teaching, 32 (2),  147–164, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02607470600655136 .  Smith, K. (2016). Partnerships in teacher education – going beyond the rhetoric,  with reference to the Norwegian context. CEPS Journal , 6(3), 17–36.  UNESCO Institute for Statistics (Ed.) (2012). International standard classifica‐ tion of education. ISCED 2011,  http://uis.unesco.org/en/topic/internationalstandard-classification-education-isced .  Wiedenhorn, T.; Janssen, M. & Keller-Schneider, M. (2021). Was zeigt sich  im Handeln von Studierenden in eigenständiger Unterrichtsführung im  Praxissemester? Presentation, Conference “Lernen in der Praxis. Kohärent, in‐ terdisziplinär, transdisziplinär? ” der Internationalen Gesellschaft für Schul‐ praktische Professionalisierung (IGSP), March 23, 2021, Osnabrück, Ger‐ many.  Zeichner, K. (2010). Rethinking the connections between campus courses  and field experiences in college and university-based teacher education.  Journal of Teacher Education, 61 (1–2), 89–99, http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/ 0022487109347671 . School Adoption as a Collaborative Partnership  in Teacher Education at the Europa-Universität  Flensburg  Johanna Gosch & Kirsten Großmann  Summary School adoption at the Europa-Universität Flensburg is a collaborative part‐ nership between the university, the adoption school and the Institute for  Quality Development at School in Schleswig-Holstein. It aims at providing  selected student teachers with deeper insight into the complexity of their  future professional field and offers a close mentoring system for both the  participating student teachers and the in-service teachers. Currently, a school  adoption pilot at a secondary school is prepared.  Introduction School adoption at the Europa-Universität Flensburg (EUF) started in Octo‐ ber 2014 (Großmann, Bach & Winkel 2016). The sixth adoption was carried  out in November 2019. It was originally a project for primary schools 1 only.  The project is embedded in a 10 to fourteen-week long internship in the 3rd semester of the Master of Education program. This is the student teachers’  practical semester. School adoption is a special way to serve this internship:  Selected student teachers carry out their internship in a selected school in the  federal state of Schleswig-Holstein. After at least six weeks of preparation,  the student teachers take over the school for one week while the regular  teachers leave their school and work on school development. During this  adoption week, student teachers become responsible for the school’s internal  processes, such as teaching, supervising pupils and organizing the smooth  workflow during the school day.  Both the school and the student teachers apply for participation in the  project and are selected by committee (see below). The student teachers  1 Corresponds to the ISCED level 1 (UNESCO Institute for Statistics, 2012).76 Johanna Gosch & Kirsten Großmann  attend accompanying seminars at the university and the Institute for Quality  Development at School in Schleswig-Holstein.2 During adoption week, a team  of university tutors mentors the student teachers in school. The concept  of qualifying student teachers in a collaborative partnership of school, uni‐ versity, and the Institute for Quality Development at Schools in SchleswigHolstein (IQSH) has received attention from other schools and universities as  an outstanding model in teacher education that supports the combination of  theory and practice.  School Adoption as Collaborative Partnership School adoption is a collaborative partnership between EUF, the adoption  school and IQSH. Within the project, the school provides the practical en‐ vironment. The IQSH supports the project school’s teachers in their pro‐ fessional development activities and works with the student teachers on  their reflection competencies. The university organizes the process itself and  provides a solid foundation with accompanying seminars for the student  teachers in pedagogy and the school subjects.  The core element of school adoption is the adoption week, in the prepa‐ ration of which all partners are involved as much as possible and thus  contribute to the success in the best possible way.  Preparation: Selection of Student Teachers and School Preparation for school adoption begins a year in advance. Schools apply to  EUF to participate. A committee of EUF experts and the school authority  selects one or more of these schools for the upcoming school adoption. One  main selection criterion is the schools’ commitment to school development. A  second one is the approval of all schoolteachers, the parents’ advisory board  and the school authorities to the project.  Student teachers who want to participate in school adoption apply to EUF.  A letter of motivation and a questionnaire especially designed for the project  2 For information in English please visit: https://www.schleswig-holstein.de/DE/ Lan des re gie rung/IQSH/Publikationen/PDFDownloads/InfoIQSH/Downloads/iqsh  Eng lisch.html School Adoption as a Collaborative Partnership 77  Figure 1: The SATE collaborative partnership in teacher education  must be handed in. In the letter, student teachers have to answer questions  such as  1. What aspect of the project fascinates you most?  2. What are your personal competencies and social resources?  3. Do you have any qualifications that could be helpful for the project?  A committee of members of university and school evaluate the applications  regarding the student teachers’ study subjects and further competencies that  are considered relevant for successful participation. Before the final selection  of the student teachers, the following people meet to provide further infor‐ mation on the project to have a broader basis of information for the final  selection process:  – student teachers who applied for the project,  – student teachers from the previous school adoption,  – the headmaster and a team of teachers of the upcoming adoption,  – the school adoption team of the university.  After that, the committee selects the participants. Enough student teachers  are selected that two student teachers can be assigned to each class of the 78 Johanna Gosch & Kirsten Großmann  Figure 2: Application process for school adoption  project school. Before the practical semester, the university team and the  selected student teachers are introduced to the parents at a parents’ evening  at school to answer questions and to discuss concerns.  Mentoring Before the internship starts, the EUF-team specifies the project’s challenges  during a faculty meeting in school, mainly the mentoring of student teachers  regarding professional, didactical and personal issues. With the decision of  participating in the project, all teachers commit to mentor one or two student  teachers, depending on the individual teacher’s subjects and weekly working  hours. While some teachers have been mentors before, others have no expe‐ rience yet.  During this meeting mainly those aspects of everyday school life and  work are discussed which the student teachers need to know for the adoption  week, such as the school staff (other than teachers), aspects of the school day  (rules, supervision of breaks, bus times), the use of school materials and media  etc. Questions of what to do (or not to do) and whom to contact (parents’  contact details) in case of accidents, incidents (for example fire alarm), or  emergencies (serious injury of a pupil) are addressed. Ideally, these aspects  are also written down in a manual for the student teachers. The university  team supports teachers and student teachers in these questions, for example  in the implicit legal matters. All these aspects and details are not as important  during regular internships where the staff is in charge or can just be asked. School Adoption as a Collaborative Partnership 79  Course of the Project As the practical semester, the project starts in September. Following a prepa‐ ration period, in which teachers prepare the student teachers in terms of  contents, learning goals, pupils etc., the student teachers take over the school  for a week. On the Friday before adoption week, pupils and teachers, student  teachers and the university team meet in the school hall. The official handover of the school keys from teachers to student teachers takes place and the  headmaster gives some final instructions to the pupils. The school authority  installs an acting (substitute) headmaster for the adoption week in order to  fulfill all legal requirements.  During adoption week the student teachers are responsible for all teach‐ ing duties and other tasks in school, like supervising breaks, dealing with  conflicts between pupils, or coming to arrangements and finding suitable  solutions with the school’s social worker. The teachers visit other progressive  and innovative schools, discuss their ideas and develop an individual school  development concept for their school in cooperation with the IQSH.  During these days, guests are welcome at the school. Members of the  parents’ advisory board, the university and the ministry of education, as well  as the headmasters of the former and the upcoming school adoptions, pay a  visit to the student teachers and get an impression of how they deal with the  challenges of the daily routines. The student teachers consider these visits as  an appreciation of their work.  Throughout adoption week, the university team mentors the student  teachers. Daily meetings play an important role in reflecting on situations  of the day that need to be discussed in detail. Advice for supervising breaks  and improving the atmosphere during breaks and outside the classroom, like  noise regulation, and how to deal with any social behavior is provided. Also,  advice for teaching situations is given on an informal level, if required.  Furthermore, the student teachers work in teams of two to share tasks  and responsibilities, to provide mutual feedback and also be supportive in  other ways and matters. They also have the opportunity to use videography  to analyze their own actions and communication in class. 80 Johanna Gosch & Kirsten Großmann  Aims of School Adoption On a conceptual level, school adoption at EUF departs from the following  assumptions and targets different goals (Winkel, Großmann & Gosch, 2016):  a. Student teachers experience challenges and specific situations that only  schools can provide. These experiences enable student teachers to iden‐ tify different areas of competence both inside and outside the classroom,  and in which further development is indispensable. They gain a deeper  insight into the complexity of their future professional field.  b. Through intensive and systematic mentoring, student teachers are sup‐ ported in acknowledging their strengths and weaknesses, and how to  use these for further development. They are encouraged to improve their  reflective abilities.  c. A teacher’s professional profile includes the preparation, implementa‐ tion, and evaluation of lessons. During school adoption – and especially  the adoption week – the student teachers are responsible for the subject  material, the achieving of the learning objectives, and the internal diffe‐ rentiation.  This conceptual list also includes and addresses contents that are taught in  the regular practical semester, such as classroom management, differentia‐ tion, cooperative learning, cognitive activation, teachers’ health, and teacherstudent interaction. However, for school adoption there are some additional  contents, which are not addressed during the regular practical semester, such  as  – relevant extracts of the school law,  – specific content regarding the project school (e.g., work with pupils from  other countries or with special needs, use of smartboards and other digital  tools, or having school pets),  – training and practical implementation of videography,  – working or cooperating with parents,  – first aid training.  Benefits and a Look Ahead The benefits of school adoption are valuable for all partners. The schoolteach‐ ers, including the headmaster, work on their school development for five School Adoption as a Collaborative Partnership 81  days. This is not possible in any other internship. The student teachers  gain an insight into school life and its challenges. They are supported by  all partners but responsible for all teaching duties and the workflow during  the adoption week. The university team and the IQSH cooperate closely in  this project, deepen their relations and work to improve their support for  the student teachers. All partners involved feel responsible for making the  school adoption a success and supporting the student teachers to develop  their teaching abilities.  For 2020, a school adoption in a primary school and a secondary school is  in preparation. The secondary school will start as a pilot project with three  classes in the sixth grade. Further expansions for 2021 will be discussed after  the pilot.  References Großmann, K.; Bach, A. & Winkel, J. (2016). Das Praxissemester an der EuropaUniversität Flensburg. In R. Schüssler, A. Schöning, V. Schwier, S. Schicht,  J. Gold & U. Weyland (Eds.), Forschendes Lernen im Praxissemester. Zugänge,  Konzepte, Erfahrungen  (pp. 81–87). Bad Heilbrunn: Klinkhardt.  UNESCO Institute for Statistics (Ed.) (2012). International Standard Classifica‐ tion of Education. ISCED 2011,  http://uis.unesco.org/en/topic/internationalstandard-classification-education-isced .  Winkel, J.; Großmann, K. & Gosch, J. (2016). Schuladoption – Studierende machen  Schule. Eine besondere Form des Praxissemesters an der Europa-Universität  Flensburg . Flensburg: Zentrum für Lehrerinnenund Lehrerbildung der Eu‐ ropa-Universität Flensburg. Development of School Adoption for Building  Professional Competencies at Penza State  University  Olga Surina & Nataliia Pavlova  Summary We report first experiences with and lessons learned from our pilot project of  school adoption at Penza State University. As a resource exchange between  the school and the teacher education institution, the project offers various  benefits for all involved stakeholders, but also matters of improvement, such  as the uneven distribution of workload among the participating student  teachers.  Introduction Penza State University is the largest higher education institution in the region  of Penza (Russia). In autumn 2019, around 23,000 undergraduate and graduate  students were enrolled. The academic breadth includes, among other areas:  humanities, social sciences, science of education, mathematics and mechan‐ ics. The Institute of Education has more than 5,000 students and employs  470 teachers. With undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral degree programs as  well as professional development education programs, it educates innovative  leaders, explores important issues in education, and shares exciting ideas and  best practices with other higher education institutions in different countries  around the world. We have worked with school adoption in teacher education  (SATE) since 2016. The adoption scheme is still a pilot project, i.e., it has not  yet become an integrated part of the curriculum. It will be adjusted, expanded  and developed in accordance with changing state educational standards for  teacher education 1 and subsequent curricula.  1 The state educational standard for teacher education is a set of nationally rec‐ ognized requirements laid down by the state which determines a mandatory 84 Olga Surina & Nataliia Pavlova  Participants and Course of the Project At Penza State University, four-year student teachers (majoring in a broad  variety of subjects) participate in the adoption week as a part of their practical  school training. Only the best-qualified student teachers, those who achieve  at a high level, demonstrate more significant learning gains, and score higher  than the other student teachers, are chosen by the faculty and administration  to participate. This internship is implemented in two city schools in Penza  and lasts one week. Not every school class participates. The 11th grade  (ISCED level 3) (UNESCO Institute for Statistics, 2012) is excluded, due to  their upcoming Unified State Exam. 2  The student teachers complete a five-week practice period directly before  adoption week in which student teachers establish contact with their adop‐ tion classes and become acquainted with the school.  They receive preliminary instructions on their responsibilities, develop  their practice roadmap with input from all areas of teaching, as each area  has its separate set of needs to meet the student teachers’ objectives. This  includes didactic preparation based on sufficient theoretical material to help  them prepare for innovative and collaborative teaching.  An important prerequisite for a successful practice is preparation in psy‐ chology, which includes not only theory, but psychological training sessions,  workshops, and psychological counseling as well.  During the adoption week the university faculty members, including  psychology mentors, are available in school for supervision and mentoring.  They also assist in planning teaching. In addition, student teachers can  discuss project-related issues, such as stress, their work-habits, or the like,  with counseling psychologists, who are full-time professors at the university  and participate in the project as well. Student teachers teach and reflect on  their teaching performance and how to improve it. For each day, student  teachers have to write a conceptual framework to integrate and organize new  minimum for the contents of educational programs, the maximum workloads  assigned to students, as well as general course loads and requirements to be met  by graduates. 2 The Unified State Exam (USE) is a series of exams every Russian student must pass  after graduation from school (11th grade) to enter a university or a college. Since  2009, the USE is the only form of graduation examinations in schools and the main  form of preliminary examinations in universities.Development of School Adoption for Building Professional Competencies 85  knowledge and information into a coherent structure in their own classroom.  They experience a new variation of communication lines (pupils – parents –  school administration). They inform parents about what they are doing and  are expected to be professional here, i.e., to adhere to ethical and legal  standards. Each student teacher is supposed to have very specific guidelines  for the development of a school practice portfolio.  Benefits In our opinion, having school adoption in our teacher education program has  three major benefits:  – First, it enables student teachers to experience a realistic teaching situation  as they are allowed to take over all duties and responsibilities of teachers.  Thus, student teachers gain a comprehensive and full idea of an authentic  experience of the teaching profession. During adoption week, they deal  with school challenges, such as intense whole-week  teaching (not sporadic  teaching as in other internships) occurring in increasingly multicultural  classrooms; integration of pupils with special educational needs; using ICT  for effective teaching; engaging in evaluation and accountability processes;  and involving parents in schools. In this way, student teachers develop and  improve their individual teacher personalities on a daily basis.  – Second, teachers can carry out in-service training. Each teacher is given  six days for attending training activities. The present scheme aims to sup‐ port schools looking for training services in order to deal with structural  changes, development plans, and teachers’ professional development as a  central component of requirements for teachers. 3  – Third, it establishes regular and collaborative working relationships be‐ tween the school and the teacher education institution. This is regarded as  important to ensure that higher education institutions can deliver higher  education in close partnership with schools, in which student teachers gain  3 The activities of schoolteachers are determined in accordance with the Profes‐ sional Standard for teachers, which is approved by order of the Ministry of  Labor of Russia. In this period of time, the 2016 Standard is applicable ( https:// profstandart.rosmintrud.ru/obshchiy-informatsionnyy-blok/natsionalnyy-reestrprofessionalnykh-standartov/reestr-professionalnykh-standartov/).86 Olga Surina & Nataliia Pavlova  first-hand experience and can develop professionally. Such partner schools  need to work together with universities to determine the exact balance in  the teacher education curriculum taught in the two environments. Thus,  school adoption contributes to the combination of theory and practice.  This includes ensuring a good balance between teaching practice, as an  element in formal education programs at the teacher education institute,  and teaching practice arranged as separate periods at school.  Student Experiences and Perspectives We summarized some experiences gained through the adoption week to  understand student teachers’ opinions and to gain insights from the partici‐ pants. At the end of the adoption week, during an informal roundtable talk  with student teachers, the university staff, and schoolteachers, experiences  and challenges were discussed.  The primary school student teachers noted that their main reason for  participating was to become fully immersed in school life. This was an oppor‐ tunity to learn how to balance their time between classes, pupils’ homework,  and extracurricular activities. Student teachers experienced a schoolteacher’s  real workload with its intensity, responsibilities, and variations of communi‐ cation with pupils, parents, school administration 4 and other stakeholders,  such as the director of the pedagogical institute. Due to the major time and  effort which is required, the student teachers argued for two student teachers  in one class during adoption week to share the workload and responsibility.  Whereas the Russian language and mathematics student teachers pointed to  their intensive workload (20–24 classes per week to prepare, to teach and  to follow-up), the biology, chemistry, and geography student teachers had  to teach far fewer classes. However, this unequal distribution is due to the  timetable of the school.  In general, the student teachers agreed that the school adoption experience  was more than just teaching classes. They were able to adapt their knowledge  and skills gained at the university to school circumstances. Dealing with small  incidents while teaching (cuts, scratches, torn school uniforms, broken school  supplies, etc.), was sometimes difficult for them. Also, they found it difficult to  choose discipline techniques  that encouraged positive behavior, and motivated  4 Who remains at the school during adoption week.Development of School Adoption for Building Professional Competencies 87  pupils to feel good about themselves. Classroom management was critically  important in the middle grades (ISCED level 2), where pupils were more likely  to experience declines in academic motivation and self-esteem.  Plans for Improvement Although the evaluation was mainly positive, several aspects for improve‐ ment arose. The adopted schools should carefully define their needs for  school and teacher development, and the teacher education institution should  offer tailor-made professional support. This was discussed, even though the  university analyzes the needs of the teachers through tests and assignments  and already offers seminars, workshops etc. based on these analyses. For‐ tunately, Penza University has exceptional pedagogical resources, offering  a variety of programs to help new and experienced teachers to develop  and improve their work. These include teaching conferences, individual and  group consultations, work with individual courses, actual teaching sessions,  and master classes for experienced teachers that focus on topics such as  lecturing, discussion-leading skills, and grading. Penza State is committed  to creating an environment that encourages thoughtful experimentation and  greater reflection about teaching approaches, an environment in which out‐ standing instruction, pedagogical improvement, and pedagogical innovation  and assessment are celebrated.  One suggestion to improve SATE for the student teachers is to start  preparing earlier, i.e., at the beginning of the term. This could help in  establishing communication between student teachers and school mentors,  and between school mentors and university staff. More effort is needed to  help guarantee the success of the adoption for the whole school in terms of  information exchange, preliminary guidance, planning, follow-up guidance,  evaluation and reflection.  Furthermore, we hope to increase the benefits of SATE by installing two  student teachers in one class, to share the workload and to emphasize team‐ work and co-teaching. In the future, all student teachers should participate  in school adoption, because it is the most effective and realistic way for  teacher education to train student teachers to become schoolteachers, as it  significantly develops their competencies. Therefore – and despite the fact of  the high workload – we also consider extending the adoption week to two  weeks. 88 Olga Surina & Nataliia Pavlova  Waxmann Verlag / 2. VK / Über die Kunst, den Wandel zu gestalten / 20.10.2020 [1] Main aim Benefits compared to regular university program  Full immersion in school life, including allocating time appropri ‐ ately to classes, pupils’ homework, and extracurricular activities;  adapting knowledge and skills gained at university to changing  circumstances. Reflection on how to improve performance.  Extensive didactic preparation to get ready for innovative and  collaborative teaching. Accurate and complete information on the realities of school;  optimization of scientific and methodological research, making the  process of training more relevant and thereby practice-oriented.  Preparation and course of school adoption Time Milestones Activities Participants  Spring, a  year before  the practiceSchool choice scheme that  takes into account  the body of studentsWork on consideration of  applications from schools within the  university educational cluster and the  coordination of school selection with the  Education Department of the city of PenzaDirector of the Pedagogical Institute, school  principals, Deputy Head of the Education  Department of the city of Penza Signing of the agreement between the  university, the Department of Education of  the city of Penza and the schools Rector of the university, Director of the  Pedagogical Institute, school principals,  Head of the Education Department of the  city of Penza Autumn Distribution of participants’  roles and responsibilitiesKickoff meeting between university  educators and school mentors on  distributing responsibilities at the  preparation stage of the practiceDirector of the Pedagogical Institute, school  principals, university-based School  Practice Coordinator, university educators  and mentor teachers Receiving parental  permission for each pupil  prior to the projectHolding parent meetings School principals, parent committee, uni‐ versity-based School Practice Coordinator Developing schoolteacher  competenciesPlanning refresher courses for  schoolteachers participating in the projectRepresentatives of the university and  schools Development of School Adoption for Building Professional Competencies 89  Waxmann Verlag / 2. VK / Über die Kunst, den Wandel zu gestalten / 20.10.2020 [2] Developing university  educator competenciesConsultations for university educators on  project organizationUniversity educators, school mentors,  heads of Councils for Teacher Education  and Development January Selection of student  teachersCoordination of the number of student  teachers in school placements in  accordance with the number of classes  and the major of student teachersUniversity-based School  Practice Coordinator and participants of  the practice February Training of the selected  studentsConducting practice in the schools in order  to get to know the school, pupils, and  teachersPupils, student teachers, university  educators, school mentors Adoption  week Creation of a realistic  picture of the teaching  professionMorning and afternoon meetings with  student teachers at school Student teachers, university educators,  school mentors Postadoption  evaluationFinal Conference Reflection and evaluation All  Research interests Testing methods and scientific developments in practice, obtaining additional empirical material for future research that will contribute  to the formation of new techniques and new research perspectives.  Table 1: Overview of SATE at Penza State University90 Olga Surina & Nataliia Pavlova  In the future, establishing and broadening better partnerships between ini‐ tial teacher training institutions and schools could contribute to developing  schools as learning communities. Schools should not only provide practical  training to student teachers, but could also become learning communities  for practicing teachers, teacher educators, and other stakeholders in educa‐ tion. Our experience shows us that teachers who are engaged in the school  adoption partnership gain a greater sense of involvement in educational de‐ velopments and opportunities to update their knowledge and skills. Teacher  education institutions benefit from contact with everyday life in schools and  learn from good practice in schools. However, our experience also shows  that one key condition for a well-functioning partnership is that the role of  each partner is carefully defined from the very beginning. Table 1 shows the  revised version of the preparation of the student teachers for school adoption  plus additional aspects of our concept.  Conclusion School adoption in teacher education is an example of resource exchange  between the school and teacher education institution, including the exchange  of personal experience, scientific knowledge, and information databases. This  internship is an opportunity to develop, improve, and work on teacher qual‐ ification and teacher professionalization, as it emphasizes active teaching,  assessment, observation, and reflection.  References Ministry of Labour and Social Protection of the Russian Federation (Ed.)  (2016). Professional standards . Register of professional standards , https:// profstandart.rosmintrud.ru/obshchiy-informatsionnyy-blok/natsionalnyyreestr-professionalnykh-standartov/reestr-professionalnykh-standartov/.  UNESCO Institute for Statistics (Ed.) (2012). International standard classifica‐ tion of education. ISCED 2011,  http://uis.unesco.org/en/topic/internationalstandard-classification-education-isced . Evaluation of the School Adoption  in Teacher Education-Project  A Primer on Approach and Main Findings  Sonja Bandorski  Summary This chapter is based on the evaluation of the Erasmus+ project School Adop‐ tion in Teacher Education . It gives a brief insight into selected results. Overall,  the results illustrate that the student teachers’ expectations and goals, their  experiences and the tasks they have taken on differ widely. However, all  student teachers consider it to be a valuable and instructive project.  Introduction An obligatory part of the Erasmus+ project School Adoption in Teacher Ed‐ ucation  (SATE) was its evaluation. For this purpose, we 1 developed a joint  evaluation design which was mainly based on the school adoption scheme  developed at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (Hau‐ galøkken & Ramberg, 2005). Data were collected during the first two years of  the Erasmus+ project. The evaluation report (Bandorski, 2019) was completed  in the third one. In this report the aspects outlined below are described in  more detail.  In the following chapter, I describe the evaluation goals, methods and  design and give a primer on some main findings on (1) comparison of SATE  with other internships, (2) school adoption as an authentic experience, (3)  topics of student teachers’ reflection, (4) student teachers’ characteristics and  (5) comparable goals of the participants. From these it is concluded that  the participating student teachers from the different study programs and  years have different expectations for school adoption and make different  experiences in and with them.  1 The evaluation included input from Wolfgang Fichten, Jens Winkel, Johanna  Gosch, and Svenja Roch.92 Sonja Bandorski  Figure 1: Evaluation design of SATE  Goals, Methods and Design The main goals of the project evaluation were  – to find comparable aspects in the school adoption programs that are ap‐ propriate for every participating institution,  – to analyze whether or not participation in the adoption week had an  impact on the student teachers’ professional development, and  – to transnationally compare student teachers’ answers to selected items.  Throughout the evaluation, quantitative and qualitative methods were used  (Figure 1). The student teachers participating in the school adoptions were  asked to complete a standardized questionnaire before and after their school  adoption program. The online questionnaires consisted of pre-coded closed  questions and open-ended questions aiming at gathering student teachers’  individual answers. Additionally, in each country, and for every school  adoption, a focus group interview with student teachers, schoolteachers and  teacher educators was conducted after their respective school adoption.  By using this approach, it was possible to gain a qualitative multi-per‐ spective view from all participating parties as well as a quantitative pre-post  comparison concerning the student teachers’ views. A total number of 117  student teachers completed both the preand post-questionnaires: Evaluation of the School Adoption in Teacher Education-Project 93  – 35 from Penza State University (Russia),  – 25 from the University of Education Weingarten (Germany),  – 23 from the Europa-Universität Flensburg (Germany),  – 22 from the University College Syddanmark (Denmark) and  – 12 from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, (NTNU,  Norway).  By validating and complementing each other, these combined methods  helped us to triangulate results (Johnson, Onwuegbuzie & Turner, 2007)  providing a more global view on the adoption week processes.  Selected and Summarized Results In this chapter I do not explicitly include all three project evaluation objec‐ tives mentioned above, but outline selected aspects. In doing so, I neglect the  range and detailed differences found in the data. These can, as said before, be  found in the evaluation report itself. In this sense, the presentations here are  a primer. All the following page numbers refer to the detailed descriptions in  the evaluation report (Bandorski, 2019).  Comparison with other internships. The findings show that the school adop‐ tion program differs from former internships experienced by the student  teachers, and indicate their multifaceted development. Compared to those  other forms, school adoption offers more and more intense opportunities for  student teachers to develop their teacher personalities, to gain more insights  into daily routines in schools, to gain different teaching experiences, and to  experience teacher-pupil-relationships more profoundly (p. 49).  School adoption as an authentic experience. It provides the student teachers  with insights into school life and the teaching profession in general, be‐ yond teaching itself, which results in different and respectively more tasks  and a higher complexity (pp. 21–22). Having said this, school adoption can  be understood as a successful implementation of a realistic teacher educa‐ tion (Korthagen, 2001; Korthagen, Kim & Greene, 2013). Thus, what makes  school adoption special compared to other internships in teacher education  is teamwork, responsibility, and independence (pp. 22–24). Those features  are mentioned and addressed by all participating groups, student teachers as 94 Sonja Bandorski  well as schoolteachers and teacher educators. In general, it can be said that  the student teachers gain realistic experiences in the school system of their  country and take on responsibility in (almost) every field of a fully qualified  teacher. Still, the concrete activities performed in school adoption differ  between the countries, as each country has its own particular pattern. De‐ pending on the position of school adoption in the teacher education program,  opportunities for making completely new experiences differ in their extent.  Bachelor students may not have much practical experience yet, so there are  many opportunities to be confronted with new tasks they have never been  confronted with or performed before. For more experienced Master students,  it is difficult to find something completely new in school adoption. However,  one common point did emerge: In all countries the student teachers had little  contact with the parents (pp. 57–60).  Personal goals. School adoptions in the participating countries have certain  characteristics which student teachers found especially helpful in achieving  their personal goals (p. 40). This can best be shown by comparing the concepts  at the Europa-Universität Flensburg, the University of Education Weingarten,  and at Penza State University (Figure 2):  – In Flensburg, school adoption takes place in the master program (Gosch &  Großmann, 2020). Student teachers there emphasized their independence  and responsibility with a focus on the everyday tasks of a teacher. To  accomplish their goals, reflection and exchange with peers have been  considered very helpful.  – In contrast, in Weingarten, school adoption takes place in the bachelor  program (Janssen & Wiedenhorn, 2020b) and is embedded in a structured  setting including mentoring both at school and at university. Next to  teaching they focus on rather structured school activities like workshops  for pupils. Teacher guidance has been reported as one of the main helpful  aspects in achieving their goals.  – Penza (Surina & Pavlova, 2020) has another specific characteristic that  became obvious when student teachers reported that teacher guidance and  their own knowledge and commitment helped them to achieve their goals.  These characteristics underline the relevance of student teachers’ own  actions in practice, as well as power and knowledge as crucial dimensions  in practice (Kemmis, 2009). Evaluation of the School Adoption in Teacher Education-Project 95    Europa-Universität Flensburg (Master  p rogram):  –Students emphasize their  independence &  responsibility  –Focus on daily tasks of a  teacher  –Exchange & reflection with  peers considered helpful University of Education Weingarten  ( Bachelor program):   –Higher significance of  preparation of students at  university  –Students focus on structured  activities in school  –Students consider teacher  mentoring helpful  Penza State University (Bachelor  p rogram):   –Students emphasize their  independence & consider  teacher mentors as helpful  –Students also consider their  knowledge & commitment as  helpful  Figure 2: Three different characteristics of school adoption  Topics of reflection. Such local characteristics might also influence student  teachers’ reflection. What can be said for all countries is that the topics  reflected upon are different from those being reflected upon in other types of  internships, which underlines the specific characteristic of school adoption.  The measured differences between the countries regarding reflection can  partly be explained by the way reflection is integrated into the study pro‐ grams. In Denmark and Norway, for example, there is quite a large amount of  institutionalized reflection in other internships. In school adoption, however,  the student teachers feel more independent, perhaps also from such processes  of institutionalized reflection. However, student teachers also report a higher  workload in SATE. Perhaps reflection is not recognized as such when school  days get busy for the student teachers, even though thinking about teaching  and schooling does take place.  Student teachers’ characteristics. The participating student teachers across  all countries (except for Russia) show similar characteristics: Social aspects  and school-specific knowledge are more important to them than following 96 Sonja Bandorski  rules and completing assigned tasks (p. 64). Regarding their self-assessment of  feeling competent as a teacher, the student teachers assess themselves better  after school adoption than they did before (pp. 26–29). However, their scores  were high already prior to the beginning of the school adoption (pp. 26– 29 & p. 67) and, as such, reveal a relatively high level of self-confidence. In  addition, they all show a high commitment in their attitude towards school.  They all seem to have their own ideas on how they want to act as a teacher  or how they interpret their role as a teacher, with a focus on knowledge  concerning school and collaboration in school. Student teachers reported  that they had learned a lot in the fields of independence and autonomy, selfmanagement, and self-consciousness during the project. Interestingly, none  of the student teachers reported having experienced pressure or stress on a  noteworthy level (p. 44). The different changes in the self-assessed competen‐ cies correspond with the different characteristics of school adoption. Student  teachers in Penza and Flensburg are self-confident and emphasize indepen‐ dence, responsibility, and their knowledge. Correspondingly they look for  unexpected situations and develop their capability of remaining calm in them.  Looking at the rather inexperienced student teachers from Weingarten, it is  comprehensible that their major increase occurs in knowing how to reach  their professional goals.  Comparable Goals. The student teachers in all countries have one compa‐ rable goal for their participation in school adoption: they aim to develop on  a personal and a professional level and to develop their teacher personality .  This term is used by the student teachers themselves, which illustrates the  importance of personal aspects in this internship. Student teachers achieve  their goals in all countries and no systematic hindering aspects have been  found. This is particularly interesting, because it seems as if, within school  adoption, very different individual goals can be pursued. There is a wide  range of goals that show a quite holistic view of the internship and what it  means to be or to become a teacher. A focus lies on social aspects, especially  the teacher-pupil relationship. From the perspective of the student teachers,  they nearly achieved all of their goals (pp. 36–41). Evaluation of the School Adoption in Teacher Education-Project 97  Conclusion These findings and the overall results of the evaluation show that school  adoption is a beneficial part of the teacher education programs. The col‐ laboration between schools and universities as different learning arenas for  student teachers should be strengthened and extended. The student teachers  from different study programs and study years, however, have different ex‐ pectations and goals for these learning arenas and make different experiences  in and with them.  References Bandorski, S. (2019). School adoption in teacher education. Evaluation re‐ port. Flensburg, https://www.uni-flensburg.de/fileadmin/content/portale/ lehrerbildung/dokumente/presse/2019-bandorski-sate-online.pdf .  Gosch, J. & Großmann, K. (2020). School adoption as a collaborative partnership  in teacher education at the Europa-Universität Flensburg. In M. Janssen & T.  Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 75 –81 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Haugaløkken, O. K. & Ramberg, P. (2005). School adoption as a form of teaching  practice in initial teacher education . NTNU: Trondheim.  Janssen, M. & Wiedenhorn, T. (2020a). Editorial: School adoption in teacher  education. Increasing pre-service teachers’ responsibility during practice. In  M. Janssen & T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education.  Increasing pre-service teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 9 –14 ). Mün‐ ster: Waxmann, https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Janssen, M. & Wiedenhorn, T. (2020b). The theory of practice architectures and  the core practice approach as theoretical perspectives on school adoption.  An example from the University of Education Weingarten. In M. Janssen &  T. Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 57 –73 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639.  Johnson, R. B.; Onwuegbuzie, A. J. & Turner, L. A. (2007). Toward a definition  of mixed methods research. Journal of Mixed Methods Research , 1(2), 112–133,  https://doi.org/10.1177/1558689806298224 .  Kemmis, S. (2009). Understanding professional practice: A synoptic framework.  In B. Green (Ed.), Understanding and researching professional practice  (pp. 19– 38). Rotterdam: Sense Publishers, https://doi.org/10.1163/9789087907327_003 . 98 Sonja Bandorski  Korthagen, F. (Ed.) (2001). Linking practice and theory. The pedagogy of realistic  teacher education.  London: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, https://doi.org/10. 4324/9781410600523 .  Korthagen, F.; Kim, Y. M. & Greene, W. L. (Eds.) (2013). Teaching and learning  from within. A core reflection approach to quality and inspiration in education .  New York: Routledge, https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203121405 .  Surina, O. & Pavlova, N. (2020). Development of school adoption for building  professional competencies at Penza State University. In M. Janssen & T.  Wiedenhorn (Eds.), School adoption in teacher education. Increasing pre-ser‐ vice teachers’ responsibility during practice  (pp. 83 –90 ). Münster: Waxmann,  https://doi.org/10.31244/9783830992639. The Authors The list of authors is sorted alphabetically by last name.  Sonja  Bandorski  worked at the Europa-Universität Flensburg and was a  member of the Erasmus+ SATE project and responsible for its evaluation.  For queries please contact the editors.  Johanna  Gosch  is a research associate and responsible for school adoption  at the Europa-Universität Flensburg since 2016. She organizes the application  process, gives accompanying seminars in pedagogy and coordinates the work  of the involved stakeholders.  Mail address: johanna.gosch@uni-flensburg.de  Kirsten  Großmann  is academic counsellor and responsible for all practical  studies in schools at the Europa-Universität Flensburg since 2014. She or‐ ganizes the practical semester for all student teachers, holds accompanying  seminars in pedagogy and has been part of the school adoption team from  the beginning. Her upcoming thesis is on school adoption-teachers’ selfawareness to their impact in teacher education.  Mail address: kirsten.grossmann@uni-flensburg.de  Markus  Janssen  is a teaching and research assistant at the University of  Education Weingarten. In his work, he focuses on professionalization, reflec‐ tion and reflexivity in teacher education as well as on qualitative research,  especially in the field of qualitative content analysis.  Mail address: janssen@ph-weingarten.de  Andreas  Lund  is a professor at the Department of Teacher Education and  School Research, University of Oslo, Norway, and previously the first director  of the ProTed Center of Excellence in Teacher Education. Among his research  interests are: Teaching and learning in technology rich environments, trans‐ formative agency, and sociocultural and activity theoretical perspectives. He  has published widely on these and other subjects.  Mail address: andreas.lund@ils.uio.no 100 The Authors  Monika  Merket  is a doctoral student at the Department of Teacher Ed‐ ucation at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. She has  15 years’ experience in lower secondary schools and has worked at the  department organizing the student teachers’ practice for the last seven years.  Her doctoral thesis is centered within the field of practice and concerns how  the pedagogic discourse is re-contextualized in the mentoring dialogue.  Mail address: monika.merket@ntnu.no  Elin  Bø Morud  is deputy head at the Department of Teacher Education at  the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, where she is mainly  responsible for continuing education for teachers and school leaders. She is  primarily educated in mathematics and political science and has twelve years  experience as a teacher and school leader at lower secondary schools. Her  areas of interest are school development, models for competence develop‐ ment in school, mathematics education and continuing education.  Mail address: elin.morud@ntnu.no  Nataliia  Pavlova , PhD, associate professor of English, chair of the depart‐ ment of foreign languages, Penza State University. Her principal research  interests are in the fields of comparative and international higher education,  with a particular focus on policy issues in historical context.  Mail address: nataliia.pavlova@inbox.ru  Olga  Surina , PhD, associate professor of mathematics, director of the peda‐ gogical institute at Penza State University. Her main research interests are in  the fields of teacher education, teacher education policy, teachers’ continued  professional learning, teaching effectiveness and professional development.  Mail address: o.surina2013@yandex.ru  Thomas  Wiedenhorn , PhD, teaching and research assistant at the Uni‐ versity of Education Weingarten. His main areas of interest are historical  educational research, transitions in education, portfolio in school and in  teacher education.  Mail address: wiedenhorn@ph-weingarten.de 