INTERNATIONAL ACADEMY OF EDUCATION INTERNATIONAL BUREAU OF EDUCATION Teaching By Jere Brophy EDUCATIONAL PRACTICES SERIES–1 2The International Bureau of Education–IBE An international centre for the content of education, the IBE was founded in Geneva in 1925 as a private institution. In 1929,it became the first intergovernmental organization in the fieldof education. In 1969, the IBE joined UNESCO as an integral,yet autonomous, institution with three main lines of action:organizing the sessions of the International Conference onEducation; collecting, analysing and disseminating educationaldocumentation and information, in particular on innovationsconcerning curricula and teaching methods; and undertakingsurveys and studies in the field of comparative education. At the present time, the IBE: (a) manages World data on education , a databank presenting on a comparative basis the profiles of national education systems; (b) organizes courseson curriculum development in developing countries; (c) col-lects and disseminates through its databank INNODATAnotable innovations on education; (d) co-ordinates prepara-tion of national reports on the development of education; (e)administers the Comenius Medal awarded to outstandingteachers and educational researchers; and (f) publishes a quar-terly review of education– Prospects , a quarterly newsletter– Educational innovation and information , a guide for foreign students– Study abroad , as well as other publications. In the context of its training courses on curriculum development, the Bureau is establishing regional and subregionalnetworks on the management of curriculum change and devel-oping a new information service–a platform for the exchangeof information on content. The IBE is governed by a Council composed of representatives of twenty-eight Member States elected by the GeneralConference of UNESCO.  The IBE is proud to be associated with the work of the International Academy of Education and publishes this mate-rial in its capacity as a clearing house promoting the exchangeof information on educational practices. http://www.ibe.unesco.org3Series preface This booklet on the generic aspects of effective teaching has been prepared for inclusion in the Educational Practices Seriesdeveloped by the International Academy of Education and dis-tributed by the International Bureau of Education and theAcademy. One mission of the International Academy ofEducation is to foster scholarly excellence in all fields of edu-cation. As part of this mission, the Academy provides timelysyntheses of research on educational topics of internationalimportance. This booklet is the first in a series on educationalpractices that generally improve learning. It focuses on themost central act of education–teaching.  The author is Jere Brophy, who is University Distinguished Professor of Teacher Education at Michigan State Universityand a Fellow of the International Academy of Education. He iswell known both for his personal contributions to educationalresearch and for his policy-oriented syntheses of work on var-ious aspects of classroom teaching. He was one of the devel-opers of process/product research, which examines relation-ships between teaching practices and student outcomes. Also,he has contributed to research and scholarship concerningteachers’ attitudes, beliefs and expectations, including self-ful-filling prophecy effects; the interpersonal dynamics ofteacher/student interaction; classroom management; studentmotivation; the analysis of instructional materials and learningactivities; and the teaching of school subjects for understand-ing, appreciation and life application.  The Academy is grateful to Professor Brophy for planning, drafting and revising this booklet. Professor Brophy wishes tothank Lorin Anderson, Erik De Corte, Barry Fraser and HerbertWalberg for their comments on previous drafts of the booklet,and June Benson for her assistance with manuscript prepara-tion. The officers of the International Academy of Education are aware that this booklet is based on research carried out pri-marily in economically advanced countries. The booklet, how-ever, focuses on aspects of teaching that appear to be univer-sal in much formal schooling and thus seem likely to begenerally applicable throughout the world. Even so, the prin-ciples need to be assessed with reference to local conditions,and adapted accordingly. In any educational setting, guidelines for practice require sensitive and sensible application and con-tinuing evaluation of their effectiveness. HERBERT J. WALBERG Editor, Educational Practices SeriesUniversity of Illinois at Chicago Officers of the International Academy of Education • Erik De Corte, President of the Academy and  Professor of Education, Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium. • Herbert J. Walberg, Vice-President of the Academy and Research Professor of Education and Psychology,University of Illinois at Chicago, United States. • Barry J. Fraser, Executive Officer of the Academy and  Professor of Education, Curtin University of Technology, Perth, Australia. 4Table of contents Introduction, page 6 1. A supportive classroom climate, page 8 2. Opportunity to learn, page 10 3. Curricular alignment, page 13 4. Establishing learning orientations, page 15 5. Coherent content, page 17 6. Thoughtful discourse, page 19 7. Practice and application activities, page 21 8. Scaffolding students’ task engagement, page 23 9. Strategy teaching, page 25 10. Co-operative learning, page 27 11. Goal-oriented assessment, page 29 12. Achievement expectations, page 31 Conclusion, page 33 References, page 34 Printed in Switzerland by PCL, Lausanne. 5This publication has been produced by the International Academy of Education (IAE), Palais des Académies, 1, rue Ducale, 1000 Brussels,Belgium, and the International Bureau of Education (IBE), P.O. Box 199, 121 1Geneva 20, Switzerland. It is available in English and French and may be freely reproduced and translated into other languages. Please send a copy of any publication thatreproduces this text in whole or in part to the IAE and the IBE. This publica-tion is available on Internet in its printed form, see: http://www.ibe.unesco.org The author is responsible for the choice and presentation of the facts containedin this publication and for the opinions expressed therein, which are not nec-essarily those of UNESCO: IBE and do not commit the Organization. The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publica-tion do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of theUNESCO/IBE concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city orarea, or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers orboundaries.Introduction This booklet is a synthesis of principles of effective teaching that have emerged from research in classrooms. It addressesgeneric aspects of curriculum, instruction and assessment, aswell as classroom organization and management practices thatsupport effective instruction. It focuses on learning outcomesbut with recognition of the need for a supportive classroom cli-mate and positive student attitudes towards schooling, teach-ers and classmates.  Much of the research support for these principles comes from studies of relationships between classroom processes(measured through observation systems) and student out-comes (most notably, gains in standardized achievement tests).However, some principles are rooted in the logic of instruc-tional design (e.g. the need for alignment among a curricu-lum’s goals, content, instructional methods and assessmentmeasures). In addition, attention was paid to emergent theo-ries of teaching and learning (e.g. socio-cultural, social con-structivist) and to the standards statements circulated by orga-nizations representing the major school subjects. Priority wasgiven to principles that have been shown to be applicableunder ordinary classroom conditions and associated withprogress towards desired student outcomes. The principles rest on a few fundamental assumptions about optimizing curriculum and instruction. First, school cur-ricula subsume different types of learning that call for differenttypes of teaching, and so no single teaching method (e.g.direct instruction, social construction of meaning) can be themethod of choice for all occasions. An optimal programme willfeature a mixture of instructional methods and learning activi-ties.  Second, within any school subject or learning domain, students’ instructional needs change as their expertise develops.Consequently, what constitutes an optimal mixture of instruc-tional methods and learning activities will evolve as schoolyears, instructional units and even individual lessons progress. Third, students should learn at high levels of mastery yet progress through the curriculum steadily. This implies that, atany given time, curriculum content and learning activities needto be difficult enough to challenge students and extend their 6learning, but not so difficult as to leave many students confused or frustrated. Instruction should focus on the zone ofproximal development, which is the range of knowledge andskills that students are not yet ready to acquire on their ownbut can acquire with help from their teachers.  71. A supportive classroom climate Research findings Productive contexts for learning feature an ethic of caring that pervades teacher/student and student/student interactions andtranscends gender, race, ethnicity, culture, socio-economic sta-tus, handicapping conditions and all other individual differ-ences. Students are expected to manage instructional materialsresponsibly, participate thoughtfully in learning activities, andsupport the personal, social and academic well-being of allmembers of the classroom community.  In the classroom To create a climate for moulding their students into a cohesive and supportive learning community, teachers need to displaypersonal attributes that will make them effective as models andsocializers: a cheerful disposition, friendliness, emotionalmaturity, sincerity, and caring about students as individuals aswell as learners. The teacher displays concern and affection forstudents, is attentive to their needs and emotions, and social-izes them to display these same characteristics in their interac-tions with one another.  In creating classroom displays and in developing content during lessons, the teacher connects with and builds on thestudents’ prior knowledge and experiences, including theirhome cultures. Extending the learning community from theschool to the home, the teacher establishes and maintains col-laborative relationships with parents and encourages theiractive involvement in their children’s learning. The teacher promotes a learning orientation by introducing activities with emphasis on what students will learn from them,treating mistakes as natural parts of the learning process, and 8Students learn best within cohesive and  caring learning communities.encouraging students to work collaboratively and help one another. Students are taught to ask questions without embar-rassment, to contribute to lessons without fear of their ideasbeing ridiculed, and to collaborate in pairs or small groups onmany of their learning activities. References: Good & Brophy (2000); Sergiovanni (1994). 92. Opportunity to learn Research findings A major determinant of learning in any academic domain is the degree of exposure to the domain at school. The lengths of theschool day and the school year create upper limits on students’opportunities to learn. Within these limits, the learning oppor-tunities actually experienced by students depend on howmuch of the available time they spend participating in lessonsand learning activities. Effective teachers allocate most of theavailable time to activities designed to accomplish instructionalgoals.  Research indicates that teachers who approach management as a process of establishing an effective learning envir-onment tend to be more successful than teachers who empha-size their roles as disciplinarians. Effective teachers do notneed to spend much time responding to behaviour problemsbecause they use management techniques that elicit students’co-operation and sustain their engagement in activities.Working within the positive classroom climate implied by theprinciple of a learning community, the teacher articulates clearexpectations concerning classroom behaviour in general andparticipation in lessons and learning activities in particular,teaches procedures that foster productive engagement duringactivities and smooth transitions between them, and followsthrough with any needed cues or reminders. In the classroom There are more things worth learning than there is time available to teach them, and so it is essential that limited classroomtime be used efficiently. Effective teachers allocate most of this 10Students learn more when most of the available time is allocated to curriculum-related activities and the classroommanagement system emphasizes maintainingtheir engagement in those activities.time to lessons and learning activities rather than to non-academic pastimes that serve little or no curricular purpose. Theirstudents spend many more hours each year on curriculum-related activities than do students of teachers who are lessfocused on instructional goals.  Effective teachers convey a sense of the purposefulness of schooling and the importance of getting the most out of theavailable time. They begin and end lessons on time, keep tran-sitions short, and teach their students how to get started quicklyand maintain focus when working on assignments. Good plan-ning and preparation enable them to proceed through lessonssmoothly without having to stop to consult a manual or locatean item needed for display or demonstration. Their activitiesand assignments feature stimulating variety and optimal chal-lenge, which help students to sustain their task engagementand minimize disruptions due to boredom or distraction. Successful teachers are clear and consistent in articulating their expectations. At the beginning of the year they model orprovide direct instruction in desired procedures if necessary,and subsequently they cue or remind their students whenthese procedures are needed. They monitor the classroomcontinually, which enables them to respond to emerging prob-lems before they become disruptive. When possible, theyintervene in ways that do not disrupt lesson momentum or dis-tract students who are working on assignments. They teachstudents strategies and procedures for carrying out recurringactivities such as participating in whole-class lessons, engagingin productive discourse with classmates, making smooth tran-sitions between activities, collaborating in pairs or smallgroups, storing and handling equipment and personal belong-ings, managing learning and completing assignments on time,and knowing when and how to get help. The teachers’ empha-sis is not on imposing situational control but on building stu-dents’ capacity for managing their own learning, so that expec-tations are adjusted and cues, reminders and other managerialmoves are faded out as the school year progresses.  These teachers do not merely maximize ‘time on task’, but spend a great deal of time actively instructing by elaboratingcontent for students and helping them to interpret and respondto it. Their classrooms feature more time spent in interactivediscourse and less time spent in solitary seatwork. Most of theirinstruction occurs during interactive discourse with studentsrather than during extended lecture presentations. 11Note: The principle of maximizing opportunity to learn is not meant to imply maximizing the scope of the curriculum(i.e. emphasizing broad coverage at the expense of depth ofdevelopment of powerful ideas). The breadth/depth dilemmamust be addressed in curriculum planning. The point of theopportunity-to-learn principle is that, however the breadth/depth dilemma is addressed and whatever the resultant cur-riculum may be, students will make the most progress towardsintended outcomes if most of the available classroom time isallocated to curriculum-related activities.  Note: Opportunity to learn is sometimes defined as the degree of overlap between what is taught and what is tested.This definition can be useful if both the curriculum content andthe test content reflect the major goals of the instructional pro-gramme. Where this is not the case, achieving an optimal align-ment may require making changes in the curriculum contentor in the test content, or in both (see next principle). References: Brophy (1983); Denham & Lieberman (1980); Doyle (1986). 123. Curricular alignment Research findings Research indicates that educational policy-makers, textbook publishers and teachers often become so focused on contentcoverage or learning activities that they lose sight of the largerpurposes and goals that are supposed to guide curriculumplanning. Teachers typically plan by concentrating on the con-tent they intend to cover and the steps involved in the activi-ties their students will carry out, without giving much thoughtto the goals or intended outcomes of the instruction. Textbookpublishers, in response to pressure from special interestgroups, tend to keep expanding their content coverage. As aresult, too many topics are covered in not enough depth; con-tent exposition often lacks coherence and is cluttered withinsertions; skills are taught separately from knowledge contentrather than integrated with it; and in general, neither the stu-dents’ texts nor the questions and activities suggested in theteachers’ manuals are structured around powerful ideas con-nected to important goals.  Students taught using such textbooks may be asked to memorize parades of disconnected facts or to practise discon-nected subskills in isolation instead of learning coherent net-works of connected content structured around powerful ideas.These problems are often exacerbated by externally imposedassessment programmes that emphasize recognition of isolatedbits of knowledge or performance of isolated subskills. Suchproblems can be minimized through goal-oriented curriculumdevelopment, in which curricular planning is guided by theoverall purposes and goals of the instruction, not by miscella-neous content coverage pressures or test items. 13All components of the curriculum are aligned to create a cohesive programme for accomplishing instructional purposesand goals.In the classroom A curriculum is not an end in itself; it is a means of helping students to learn what is considered essential for preparing themto fulfil adult roles in society and realize their potential as indi-viduals. Its goals are learner outcomes–the knowledge, skills,attitudes, values and dispositions to action that society wishesto develop in its citizens. The goals are the reason for the exis-tence of the curriculum, so that beliefs about what is neededto accomplish them should guide each step in curriculum plan-ning and implementation. Goals are most likely to be attainedif all of the curriculum’s components (content clusters, instruc-tional methods, learning activities and assessment tools) areselected because they are believed to be needed as means ofhelping students to accomplish the overall purposes and goals.  This involves planning curriculum and instruction to develop capabilities that students can use in their lives inside andoutside school, both now and in the future. In this regard, it isimportant to emphasize goals of understanding, appreciationand life application. Understanding means that students learnboth the individual elements in a network of related contentand the connections among them, so that they can explain thecontent in their own words and connect it to their prior knowl-edge. Appreciation means that students value what they arelearning because they understand that there are good reasonsfor learning it. Life application means that students retain theirlearning in a form that makes it usable when needed in othercontexts.  Content developed with these goals in mind is likely to be retained as meaningful learning that is internally coherent, wellconnected with other meaningful learning and accessible forapplication. This is most likely to occur when the content itselfis structured around powerful ideas and the development ofthis content through classroom lessons and learning activitiesfocuses on these ideas and their connections. References: Beck & McKeown (1988); Clark & Peterson (1986); Wang, Haertel & Walberg (1993). 144. Establishing learning orientations Research findings Research indicates the value of establishing a learning orientation by beginning lessons and activities with advance organ-izers or previews. These introductions facilitate students’ learn-ing by communicating the nature and purpose of the activity,connecting it to prior knowledge and cueing the kinds of stu-dent responses that the activity requires. This helps students toremain goal-oriented and strategic as they process informationand respond to the questions or tasks embodied in the activ-ity. Good lesson orientations also stimulate students’ motiva-tion to learn by communicating enthusiasm for the learning orhelping students to appreciate its value or application poten-tial. In the classroom Advance organizers orient students to what they will be learning before the instruction begins. They characterize the generalnature of the activity and give students a structure withinwhich to understand and connect the specifics that will be pre-sented by the teacher or text. Such knowledge of the nature ofthe activity and the structure of its content helps students tofocus on the main ideas and order their thoughts effectively.Therefore, before beginning any lesson or activity, the teachershould ensure that students know what they will be learningand why it is important for them to learn it. Other ways to help students learn with a sense of purpose and direction include calling attention to the activity’s goals,overviewing main ideas or major steps to be elaborated, pre15Teachers can prepare students for learning by providing an initial structure to clarifyintended outcomes and cue desiredlearning strategies.tests that sensitize students to main points to learn, and prequestions that stimulate their thinking about the topic.  References: Ausubel (1968); Brophy (1998); Meichenbaum & Biemiller (1998). 165. Coherent content Research findings Research indicates that networks of connected knowledge structured around powerful ideas can be learned with under-standing and retained in forms that make them accessible forapplication. In contrast, disconnected bits of information arelikely to be learned only through low-level processes such asrote memorizing, and most of these bits either are soon for-gotten or are retained in ways that limit their accessibility.Similarly, skills are likely to be learned and used effectively iftaught as strategies adapted to particular purposes and situa-tions, with attention to when and how to apply them; butstudents may not be able to integrate and use skills that arelearned only by rote and practised only in isolation from therest of the curriculum. In the classroom Whether in textbooks or in teacher-led instruction, information is easier to learn to the extent that it is coherent–the sequenceof ideas or events makes sense and the relationships amongthem are apparent. Content is most likely to be organizedcoherently when it is selected in a principled way,guided by ideas about what students should learn from study-ing the topic.  When making presentations, providing explanations or giving demonstrations, effective teachers project enthusiasm forthe content and organize and sequence it so as to maximize itsclarity and coherence. The teacher presents new informationwith reference to what students already know about the topic;proceeds in small steps sequenced in ways that are easy to fol-low; uses pacing, gestures and other oral communication skills 17To facilitate meaningful learning and retention, content is explained clearly anddeveloped with emphasis on its structureand connections.to support comprehension; avoids vague or ambiguous language and digressions that disrupt continuity; elicits students’responses regularly to stimulate active learning and ensure thateach step is mastered before moving to the next; finishes witha review of main points, stressing general integrative concepts;and follows up with questions or assignments that require stu-dents to encode the material in their own words and apply orextend it to new contexts. If necessary, the teacher also helpsstudents to follow the structure and flow of the content byusing outlines or graphic organizers that depict relationships,study guides that call attention to key ideas, or task organizersthat help students keep track of the steps involved and thestrategies they use to complete these steps.  In combination, the principles calling for curricular alignment and for coherent content imply that, to enable studentsto construct meaningful knowledge that they can access anduse in their lives outside school, teachers need to: (i) retreatfrom breadth of coverage in order to allow time to develop themost important content in greater depth; (ii) represent thisimportant content as networks of connected information struc-tured around powerful ideas; (iii) develop the content with afocus on explaining these important ideas and the connectionsamong them; and (iv) follow up with authentic learning activ-ities and assessment measures that provide students withopportunities to develop and display learning that reflects theintended outcomes of the instruction. References: Beck & McKeown (1988); Good & Brophy  (2000); Rosenshine (1968). 186. Thoughtful discourse Research findings Besides presenting information and modelling application of skills, effective teachers structure a great deal of content-baseddiscourse. They use questions to stimulate students to processand reflect on content, recognize relationships among andimplications of its key ideas, think critically about it, and use itin problem solving, decision making or other higher-orderapplications. The discourse is not limited to rapidly pacedrecitation that elicits short answers to miscellaneous questions.Instead, it features sustained and thoughtful development ofkey ideas. Through participation in such discourse, studentsconstruct and communicate content-related understandings. Inthe process, they abandon naïve ideas or misconceptions andadopt the more sophisticated and valid ideas embedded in theinstructional goals. In the classroom In the early stages of units when new content is introduced and developed, more time is spent in interactive lessons fea-turing teacher/student discourse than in independent work onassignments. The teacher plans sequences of questions design-ed to develop the content systematically and help students toconstruct understandings of it by relating it to their priorknowledge and collaborating in dialogue about it.  The forms and cognitive levels of these questions need to be suited to the instructional goals. Some primarily closed-endand factual questions might be appropriate when teachers areassessing prior knowledge or reviewing new learning, butaccomplishing the most significant instructional goals requiresopen-ended questions that call for students to apply, analyse,synthesize or evaluate what they are learning. Some questions 19Questions are planned to engage students in sustained discourse structured aroundpowerful ideas.will admit of a range of possible correct answers, and some will invite discussion or debate (e.g. concerning the relativemerits of alternative suggestions for solving problems).  Because questions are intended to engage students in cognitive processing and construction of knowledge, they shouldordinarily be addressed to the class as a whole. This encour-ages all students, not just the one eventually called on, to lis-ten carefully and respond thoughtfully to each question. Afterposing a question, the teacher needs to pause to allow studentsenough time to process it and at least begin to formulateresponses, especially if the question is complicated or requiresstudents to engage in higher-order thinking.  Thoughtful discourse features sustained examination of a small number of related topics, in which students are invitedto develop explanations, make predictions, debate alternativeapproaches to problems, or otherwise consider the content’simplications or applications. The teacher presses students toclarify or justify their assertions, rather than accepting themindiscriminately. In addition to providing feedback, the teacherencourages students to explain or elaborate on their answersor to comment on classmates’ answers. Frequently, discoursethat begins in a question-and-answer format evolves into anexchange of views in which students respond to one anotheras well as to the teacher and respond to statements as well asto questions. References: Good & Brophy (2000); Newmann (1990); Rowe (1986). 207. Practice and application activities Research findings There are three main ways in which teachers help their students to learn. First, they present information, explain conceptsand model skills. Second, they ask questions and lead their stu-dents in discussion and other forms of discourse surroundingthe content. Third, they engage students in activities or assign-ments that provide them with opportunities to practise orapply what they are learning. Research indicates that skillspractised to a peak of smoothness and automaticity tendto be retained indefinitely, whereas skills that are masteredonly partially tend to deteriorate. Most skills included in schoolcurricula are learned best when practice is distributed acrosstime and embedded within a variety of tasks. Thus, it is impor-tant to follow up thorough initial teaching with occasionalreview activities and with opportunities for students to usewhat they are learning in a variety of application contexts. In the classroom Practice is one of the most important yet least appreciated aspects of learning in classrooms. Little or no practice may beneeded for simple behaviours such as pronouncing words, butpractice becomes more important as learning becomes com-plex. Successful practice involves polishing skills that arealready established at rudimentary levels in order to makethem smoother, more efficient and more automatic, and nottrying to establish such skills through trial and error. Fill-in-the-blank worksheets, pages of mathematical computation problems and related tasks that engage students inmemorizing facts or practising subskills in isolation from the 21Students need sufficient opportunities to practise and apply what they are learning,and to receive improvement-orientedfeedback.rest of the curriculum should be minimized. Instead, most practice should be embedded within application contexts thatfeature conceptual understanding of knowledge and self-regulated application of skills. Thus, most practice of readingskills is embedded within lessons involving reading and inter-preting extended text, most practice of writing skills is embed-ded within activities calling for authentic writing, and mostpractice of mathematics skills is embedded within problem-solving applications.  Opportunity to learn in school can be extended through homework assignments that are realistic in length and difficultygiven the students’ abilities to work independently. To ensurethat students know what to do, the teacher can get themstarted on assignments in class, and then have them finish thework at home. An accountability system should be in place toensure that students complete their homework assignments,and the work should be reviewed in class the next day.  To be useful, practice must involve opportunities not only to apply skills but also to receive timely feedback. Feedbackshould be informative rather than evaluative, helping studentsto assess their progress with respect to major goals and tounderstand and correct errors or misconceptions. At timeswhen teachers are unable to circulate to monitor progress andprovide feedback, they should arrange for students working onassignments to get feedback by consulting posted study guidesor answer sheets or by asking peers designated to act as tutorsor resource persons. References: Brophy & Alleman (1991); Cooper (1994); Dempster (1991); Knapp (1995). 228. Scaffolding students’ task engagement Research findings Research on learning tasks suggests that activities and assignments should be sufficiently varied and interesting to motivatestudent engagement, sufficiently new or challenging to consti-tute meaningful learning experiences rather than needless rep-etition, and yet sufficiently easy to allow students to achievehigh rates of success if they invest reasonable time and effort.The effectiveness of assignments is enhanced when teachersfirst explain the work and go over practice examples with stu-dents before releasing them to work independently, and thencirculate to monitor progress and provide help when needed.The principle of teaching within the students’ zones of proxi-mal development implies that students will need explanation,modelling, coaching and other forms of assistance from theirteachers, but also that this teacher structuring and scaffoldingwill be faded as the students’ expertise develops. Eventually,students should become able to use what they are learningautonomously and to regulate their own productive taskengagement. In the classroom Besides being well chosen, activities need to be effectively presented, monitored and followed up if they are to have their fullimpact. This means preparing students for an activity inadvance, providing guidance and feedback during the activity,and leading the class in post-activity reflection afterwards. Inintroducing activities, teachers should stress their purposes inways that will help students to engage in them with clear ideasabout the goals to be accomplished. Then they might call stu23The teacher provides whatever assistance students need to enable them to engage inlearning activities productively.dents’ attention to relevant background knowledge, model strategies for responding to the task or scaffold by providinginformation about task requirements. If reading is involved, forexample, teachers might summarize the main ideas, remindstudents about strategies for developing and monitoring theircomprehension as they read (paraphrasing, summarizing, tak-ing notes, asking themselves questions to check understand-ing), distribute study guides that call attention to key ideas andstructural elements, or provide task organizers that help stu-dents to keep track of the steps involved and the strategies thatthey are using. Once students begin working on activities or assignments, teachers should circulate to monitor their progress and provideassistance if necessary. Assuming that students have a generalunderstanding of what to do and how to do it, these interven-tions can be kept brief and confined to minimal and indirectforms of help. If teacher assistance is too direct or extensive,teachers will end up carrying out tasks for students instead ofhelping them learn to carry out the tasks themselves.  Teachers also need to assess performance for completion and accuracy. When performance is poor, they will need toprovide re-teaching and follow-up assignments designed toensure that content is understood and skills are mastered. Most assignments will not have their full effects unless they are followed by reflection or debriefing activities in which theteacher reviews the task with the students, provides generalfeedback about performance, and reinforces main ideas asthey relate to overall goals. Reflection activities should alsoinclude opportunities for students to ask follow-up questions,share task-related observations or experiences, compare opin-ions, or in other ways deepen their appreciation of what theyhave learned and how it relates to their lives outside school. References: Brophy & Alleman (1991); Rosenshine & Meister (1992); Shuell (1996); Tharp & Gallimore (1988). 249. Strategy teaching Research findings General learning and study skills as well as domain-specific skills (such as constructing meaning from text, solving mathe-matical problems or reasoning scientifically) are most likely tobe learned thoroughly and become accessible for applicationif they are taught as strategies to be brought to bear purpose-fully and implemented with metacognitive awareness and self-regulation. This requires comprehensive instruction thatincludes attention to propositional knowledge (what to do),procedural knowledge (how to do it) and conditional knowl-edge (when and why to do it). Strategy teaching is especiallyimportant for less able students who otherwise might not cometo understand the value of consciously monitoring, self-regu-lating and reflecting upon their learning processes.  In the classroom Many students do not develop effective learning and problemsolving strategies on their own but can acquire them throughmodelling and explicit instruction from their teachers. Poorreaders, for example, can be taught reading comprehensionstrategies such as keeping the purpose of an assignment inmind when reading; activating relevant background knowl-edge; identifying major points in attending to the outline andflow of content; monitoring understanding by generating andtrying to answer questions about the content; or drawing andtesting inferences by making interpretations, predictions andconclusions. Instruction should include not only demonstra-tions of and opportunities to apply the skill itself but alsoexplanations of the purpose of the skill (what it does for thelearner) and the occasions on which it would be used.  Strategy teaching is likely to be most effective when it includes cognitive modelling: the teacher thinks out loud whilemodelling use of the strategy. Cognitive modelling makes overt 25The teacher models and instructs students in learning and self-regulation strategies.the otherwise covert thought processes that guide use of the strategy in a variety of contexts. It provides learners with first-person language (‘self talk’) that they can adapt directly whenusing the strategy themselves. This eliminates the need fortranslation that is created when instruction is presented in theimpersonal third-person language of explanation or even thesecond-person language of coaching. In addition to strategies used in particular domains or types of assignments, teachers can model and instruct their studentsin general study skills and learning strategies such as rehearsal(repeating material to remember it more effectively), elabora-tion (putting material into one’s own words and relating it toprior knowledge), organization (outlining material to highlightits structure and remember it), comprehension monitoring(keeping track of the strategies used to construct understand-ings and the degree of success achieved with them, and adjust-ing strategies accordingly), and affect monitoring (maintainingconcentration and task focus, and minimizing performanceanxiety and fear of failure). When providing feedback as students work on assignments and when leading subsequent reflection activities, teachers canask questions or make comments that help students to moni-tor and reflect on their learning. Such monitoring and reflec-tion should focus not only on the content being learned, butalso on the strategies that the students are using to process thecontent and solve problems. This will help the students torefine their strategies and regulate their learning more system-atically. References: Meichenbaum & Biemiller (1998); Pressley & Beard El-Dinary (1993); Weinstein & Mayer (1986). 2610. Co-operative learning Research findings Research indicates that there is often much to be gained by arranging for students to collaborate in pairs or small groupsas they work on activities and assignments. Co-operative learn-ing promotes affective and social benefits such as increasedstudent interest in and valuing of subject matter, and increasesin positive attitudes and social interactions among studentswho differ in gender, race, ethnicity, achievement levels andother characteristics.  Co-operative learning also creates the potential for cognitive and metacognitive benefits by engaging students in dis-course that requires them to make their task-related informa-tion-processing and problem-solving strategies explicit (andthus available for discussion and reflection). Students arelikely to show improved achievement outcomes when theyengage in certain forms of co-operative learning as an alterna-tive to completing assignments on their own. In the classroom Traditional approaches to instruction feature whole-class lessons followed by independent seatwork time during whichstudents work alone (and usually silently) on assignments. Co-operative learning approaches retain the whole-class lessonsbut replace part of the individual seatwork time with opportu-nities for students to work together in pairs or small groups onfollow-up practice and application activities. Co-operativelearning can be used with activities ranging from drill and prac-tice to learning facts and concepts, discussion and problemsolving. It is perhaps most valuable as a way of engaging stu-dents in meaningful learning with authentic tasks in a socialsetting. Students have more chances to talk in pairs or small 27Students often benefit from working in pairs or small groups to construct understandingsor help one another master skills.groups than in whole-class activities, and shy students are more likely to feel comfortable expressing ideas in these moreintimate settings.  Some forms of co-operative learning call for students to help one another achieve individual learning goals, for exam-ple by discussing how to respond to assignments, checkingwork, or providing feedback or tutorial assistance. Other formsof co-operative learning call for students to worktogether to achieve a group goal by pooling their resourcesand sharing the work. For example, the group might conductan experiment, assemble a collage, or prepare a researchreport to be presented to the rest of the class. Co-operativelearning models that call for students to work together to pro-duce a group product often feature a division of labour amonggroup participants (e.g. to prepare a biographical report, onegroup member will assume responsibility for studying the per-son’s early life, another for the person’s major accomplish-ments, another for the person’s effects on society, and so on).  Co-operative learning methods are most likely to enhance learning outcomes if they combine group goals with individualaccountability. That is, each group member will be heldaccountable for accomplishing the activity’s learning goals(students know that any member of the group may be calledon to answer any one of the group’s questions or that they willall be tested individually on what they are learning). Activities used in co-operative learning formats should be well suited to those formats. Some activities are most naturallycarried out by individuals working alone, others by studentsworking in pairs, and still others by small groups of three to sixstudents.  Students should receive whatever instruction and scaffolding they may need to prepare them for productive engagementin co-operative learning activities. For example, teachers mayneed to show their students how to listen, share, integrate theideas of others and handle disagreements constructively.During times when students are working in pairs or smallgroups, the teacher should circulate to monitor progress, makesure that groups are working productively and provide anyassistance needed. References: Bennett & Dunne (1992); Johnson & Johnson  (1994); Slavin (1990). 2811. Goal-oriented assessment Research findings A well-developed curriculum includes strong and functional assessment components. These assessment components arealigned with the curriculum’s goals, and so they are integratedwith its content, instructional methods and learning activities,and designed to evaluate progress towards its major intendedoutcomes.  Comprehensive assessment does not just document students’ ability to supply acceptable answers to questions orproblems; it also examines the students’ reasoning and prob-lem-solving processes. Effective teachers routinely monitortheir students’ progress in this fashion, using both formal testsor performance evaluations and informal assessments of stu-dents’ contributions to lessons and work on assignments.  In the classroom Effective teachers use assessment for evaluating students’ progress in learning and for planning curriculum improve-ments, not just for generating grades. Good assessmentincludes data from many sources besides paper-and-penciltests, and it addresses the full range of goals or intended out-comes (not only knowledge but also higher-order thinkingskills and content-related values and dispositions).Standardized, norm-referenced tests might comprise part of theassessment programme (these tests are useful to the extent thatthey measure intended outcomes of the curriculum and atten-tion is paid to students’ performance on each individual item,not just total scores). However, standardized tests should ordi-narily be supplemented with publisher-supplied curriculum-embedded tests (when these appear useful) and with teacher-made tests that focus on learning goals that are emphasized ininstruction but not in external testing sources. 29The teacher uses a variety of formal and informal assessment methods to monitorprogress towards learning goals.In addition, learning activities and sources of data other than tests should be used for assessment purposes. Everydaylessons and activities provide opportunities to monitor theprogress of the class as a whole and of individual students, andtests can be augmented with performance evaluations such aslaboratory tasks and observation checklists, portfolios of stu-dent papers or projects, and essays or other assignments thatcall for higher-order thinking and application. A broad view ofassessment helps to ensure that the assessment componentincludes authentic activities that provide students with oppor-tunities to synthesize and reflect on what they are learning,think critically and creatively about it, and apply it in problem-solving and decision-making contexts.  In general, assessment should be treated as an ongoing and integral part of each instructional unit. Results should be scru-tinized to identify learner needs, misunderstandings or mis-conceptions that may need attention; to suggest potentialadjustment in curriculum goals, instructional materials orteaching plans; and to detect weaknesses in the assessmentpractices themselves. References: Dempster (1991); Stiggins (1997); Wiggins (1993). 3012. Achievement expectations Research findings Research indicates that effective schools feature strong academic leadership that produces consensus on goal prioritiesand commitment to instructional excellence, as well as positiveteacher attitudes towards students and expectations regardingtheir abilities to master the curriculum. Teacher effects researchindicates that teachers who elicit strong achievement gainsaccept responsibility for doing so. They believe that their stu-dents are capable of learning and that they (the teachers) arecapable of and responsible for teaching them successfully. Ifstudents do not learn something the first time, they teach itagain, and if the regular curriculum materials do not do the job,they find or develop others that will.  In the classroom Teachers’ expectations concerning what their students are capable of accomplishing (with teacher help) tend to shapeboth what teachers attempt to elicit from their students andwhat the students come to expect from themselves. Thus,teachers should form and project expectations that are as pos-itive as they can be while still remaining realistic. Such expec-tations should represent genuine beliefs about what can beachieved and therefore should be taken seriously as goalstowards which to work in instructing students.  It is helpful if teachers set goals for the class and for individuals in terms of floors (minimally acceptable standards), notceilings. Then they can let group progress rates, rather thanlimits adopted arbitrarily in advance, determine how far theclass can go within the time available. They can keep theirexpectations for individual students current by monitoringtheir progress closely and by stressing current performanceover past history. 31The teacher establishes and follows through on appropriate expectations for learningoutcomes.At the very least, teachers should expect all their students to progress sufficiently to enable them to perform satisfactorilyat the next level. This implies holding all students accountablefor participating in lessons and learning activities and for turn-ing in careful and completed work on assignments. It alsoimplies that, in addition to the other elements of good teach-ing summarized in the preceding principles, struggling stu-dents will receive whatever extra time, instruction and encour-agement are needed to enable them to meet expectations. When individualizing instruction and giving students feedback, teachers should emphasize continuous progress relativeto previous levels of mastery rather than how students com-pare with their classmates or with standardized test norms.Instead of merely evaluating relative levels of success, teacherscan diagnose learning difficulties and provide feedbackaccordingly. If students have not understood an explanation ordemonstration, teachers can follow through by re-teaching (ifnecessary, in a different way rather than by merely repeatingthe original instruction).  In general, teachers are likely to be most successful when they think in terms of stretching students’ minds by stimulatingthem and encouraging them to achieve as much as they can,not in terms of ‘protecting’ them from failure or embarrass-ment. References: Brophy (1998); Creemers & Scheerens (1989);  Good & Brophy (2000); Shuell (1996); Teddlie & Stringfield (1993). 32Conclusion To date, most research on teaching has been conducted in the United States, Canada, Western Europe and Australia, and sothe degree to which findings apply to other countries has yetto be addressed. The principles presented in this booklet arebelieved to apply universally, however, for two reasons. First,research done all over the world suggests that schooling ismuch more similar than different across countries and cultures.The day is divided into periods used for teaching each of thesubjects included in the curriculum, and teaching includeswhole-class lessons in which content is developed throughteacher explanation and teacher/student interaction, followedby practice and application activities that students work onindividually or in pairs or small groups. Second, the principlesrefer to generic aspects of teaching that cut across grade levelsand school subjects, not to particular curriculum content. Insummary, these principles ought to apply universally becausethey focus on basic and universal aspects of formal schooling.They still require adaptation to the local context, however,including relevant characteristics of the nation’s school systemand the students’ cultures. The generic principles featured in this booklet need to be supplemented with more specific principles that apply to theteaching of particular school subjects to particular types of stu-dents. Readers interested in planning instruction for particulargrade levels and subject areas can consult the scholarly litera-ture in the subject areas for elaborations on and additions tothe principles outlined here. Finally, although twelve principles are highlighted for emphasis and discussed individually, each principle should beapplied in conjunction with the others. That is, the principlesare meant to be understood as mutually supportive compo-nents of a coherent approach to teaching in which theteacher’s plans and expectations, the classroom learning envi-ronment and management system, the curriculum content andinstructional materials, and the learning activities and assess-ment methods are all aligned as means of helping studentsattain intended outcomes. 33References Ausubel, D. 1968. Educational psychology: a cognitive view . New York, Holt, Rinehart & Winston. Beck, I.; McKeown, M. 1988. Toward meaningful accounts in history texts for young learners. Educational researcher (Washington, DC), vol. 17, n°. 6, p. 31-39. Bennett, N.; Dunne, E. 1992. Managing small groups . New York, Simon & Schuster. Brophy, J. 1983. Classroom organization and management. The elementary school journal (Chicago, IL), vol. 83, p. 265-85. —.1998. Motivating students to learn . Boston, McGraw-Hill. Brophy, J.; Alleman, J. 1991. Activities as instructional tools: a framework for analysis and evaluation. Educational researcher (Washington, DC), vol. 20, n°. 4, p. 9-23. Clark, C.; Peterson, P. 1986. Teachers’ thought processes. In:Wittrock, M.C., ed. Handbook of research on teaching , 3rded., p. 225-296. New York, Macmillan.  Cooper, H. 1994. The battle over homework: an administrator’s guide to setting sound and effective policies . Thousand Oaks, CA, Corwin. Creemers, B.; Scheerens, J., guest eds. 1989. Developments in school effectiveness research. International journal of educational research (Oxford, UK), vol. 13, p. 685-825. Dempster, F. 1991. Synthesis of research on reviews and tests. Educational leadership (Alexandria, VA), vol. 48, n°. 7, p. 71–76. Denham, C.; Lieberman, A., eds. 1980. Time to learn . Washington, DC, National Institute of Education.  Doyle, W. 1986. Classroom organization and management. In: Wittrock, M.C., ed. Handbook of research on teaching , 3rded., p. 392-431. New York, Macmillan. Good, T.; Brophy, J. 1986. School effects. In:Wittrock, M.C., ed. Handbook of research on teaching , 3rded., p. 570-602. New York, Macmillan. —; — . 2000. Looking in classrooms , 8thed. New York, Longman. Johnson, D.; Johnson, R. 1994. Learning together and alone: cooperative, competitive, and individualistic learning , 4thed. Boston, Allyn & Bacon. Knapp, M. 1995. Teaching for meaning in high-poverty classrooms . New York, Teachers College Press. Meichenbaum, D.; Biemiller, A. 1998. Nurturing independent learners: helping students take charge of their learning . Cambridge, MA, Brookline. Newmann, F. 1990. Qualities of thoughtful social studies classes: an empirical profile. Journal of curriculum studies (Basingstoke, UK), vol. 22, p. 253-275. 34Pressley, M.; Beard El-Dinary, P., guest eds. 1993. Special issue on strategies instruction. The elementary school journal (Chicago, IL), vol. 94, p. 105-284. Rosenshine, B. 1968. To explain: a review of research. Educational leadership (Alexandria, VA), n°. 26, p. 275-280. Rosenshine, B.; Meister, C. 1992. The use of scaffolds for teaching higher-level cognitive strategies. Educational leadership (Alexandria, VA), vol. 49, n°. 7, p. 26-33.  Rowe, M. 1986. Wait time: slowing down may be a way of speeding up! Journal of teacher education (Thousand Oaks, CA), vol. 37, p. 43-50. Sergiovanni, T. 1994. Building community in schools . San Francisco, Jossey-Bass. Shuell, T. 1996. Teaching and learning in a classroom context. In: Berliner, D.; Calfee, R., eds. Handbook of educational psychology , p. 726-764. New York, Macmillan. Slavin, R. 1990. Cooperative learning: theory, research, and practice . Englewood Cliffs, NJ, Prentice-Hall. Stiggins, R. 1997. Student-centered classroom assessment , 2nded. Upper Saddle River, NJ, Prentice-Hall. Teddlie, C.; Stringfield, S. 1993. Schools make a difference: lessons learned from a 10–year study of school effects . New York, Teachers College Press. Tharp, R.; Gallimore, R. 1988. Rousing minds to life: teaching, learning, and schooling in social context . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press. Wang, M.; Haertel, G.; Walberg, H. 1993. Toward a knowledge base for school learning. Review of educational research (Washington, DC), vol. 63, p. 249-294. Weinstein, C.; Mayer, R. 1986. The teaching of learning strategies. In:Wittrock, M.C., ed. Handbook of research on teaching , 3rded., p. 315–27. New York, Macmillan. Wiggins, G. 1993. Assessing student performance: exploring the purpose and limits of testing . San Francisco, Jossey-Bass. 35EDUCATIONAL PRACTICES SERIES–1The International Academyof Education The International Academy of Education (IAE) is a not-for-profit scientific associationthat promotes educational research, its dis-semination, and the implementation of itsimplications.  Founded in 1986, the Academyis dedicated to strengthening the contribu-tions of research, solving critical educationalproblems throughout the world, and provid-ing better communication among policymakers, researchers and practitioners.  Theseat of the Academy is at the Royal Academyof Science, Literature and Arts in Brussels,Belgium, and its co-ordinating centre is atCurtin University of Technology in Perth,Australia. The general aim of the IAE is to foster scholarly excellence in all fields of educa-tion.  Towards this end, the Academy pro-vides timely syntheses of research-based evi-dence of international importance.  TheAcademy also provides critiques of research,its evidentiary basis, and its application topolicy.   The current members of the Board of Directors of the Academy are: • Erik De Corte, University of Leuven, Belgium (President) • Barry Fraser, Curtin University of Technology, Australia (Executive Director) • Jacques Hallak, International Bureau of Education, Switzerland • Michael Kirst, Stanford University, United States of America • Ulrich Teichler, University of Kassel, Germany • Margaret Wang, Temple University, United States of America • Herbert Walberg, University of Illinois at Chicago, United States of America (VicePresident)